# Overview
Version control systems are a category of software tools that help a software team manage changes to source code over time. Version control software keeps track of every modification to the code in a special kind of database. Version Control gives a complete long-term change history of every file, branching and merging, traceability, concurrent development. Git and SVN are the two most commonly used VCS.

# Learning Outcomes
- Existing problems and why we need a better system to maintain code.
- What is version control?
- Types of version controls widely used.
- Which problems does version control solve?

## Introduction
Version Control might not be needed that much when you're the sole developer. However the things get complicated really fast when you introduce just one more developer. How do you share work with each other without losing a lot of time? How do you make sure who introduced buggy code in the production? It's not impossible it's just really hard and time consuming. Version control is a system that records changes to a file or set of files over time so that you can recall specific versions later. What happens when some bugs escapes the QA phase(more on that later) to the production? Version Control overcomes this problem by getting a rolled back code for quick deployment.

Git, SVN, Mercurial, CVS are few of the tools used widely for VCS. You can configure them on your local machine or private servers. There are some service producers who host them for you. Examples are github, bitbucket, beanstalk etc. These examples provides hosting for software development version control using Git/SVN. CVS, Mercurial and SVN are generally self-hosted.

Here we will only consider git, since it's popularly used

## What you must do?
- [An introduction to version control](http://guides.beanstalkapp.com/version-control/intro-to-version-control.html)
- [Visual Guide to Version Control to get a coarse understanding of how Version Control works](https://betterexplained.com/articles/a-visual-guide-to-version-control/)

## Assessment Quiz
1. What's the term used for tracking project changes?
- `commit`
- `branch`
- `code`
- `repository` [Correct answer]

2. What and how do you mark changes as desirable?
- `branching it`
- `committing it` [Correct answer]
- `staging it`

3. Which one of these is not a Version Control System?
- `Jira` [Correct answer]
- `Git`
- `SVN`
- `Mercurial`
