# Introducing Create React App (CRA)

## Overview

In the previous section, we saw how to inject ReactJS in an existing website by adding script tags. However, more often than not, developers prefer maintaining consistency in project development and hence, do not add a new library midway through the coding to avoid making the coding dirty. In an ideal scenario, it’s always a good practice to begin and end development with a confirmed technology stack.

In this topic, we will understand what create-react-app is and how it can help us in creating a ready template for coding in React. 



## Learning Outcome

At the end of this session, you will be able to:
-	Understand what create-react-app is and how it simplifies coding in React.
-	Download and install create-react-app on your local machine.
-	Understand the folder structure created by CRA.
-	Alternatives to CRA.

## Introduction

*What is a toolchain?*


In modern JavaScript development, we primarily face two problems – modularization and environment. For instance, as you might have already seen in section 2.5 while making your first CodePen, you need to add a Babel pre-processor. As you might be aware, Babel is used for converting your modern JavaScript code to a format which older browsers can also understand. Similarly, modern JS development also involves multiple such tools for minimizing the codebase to reduce the final size of the application to be shipped on to the server, for creating bundles, for modularizing code, and so on.

While we can definitely go about manually searching and adding for all such tools to our web application code, however, there are certain applications available online which make this tedious task much simpler by installing everything that you might need for coding by default. These applications are called toolchains and they provide you a ready-made folder structure installed with all the tools to help you concentrate on the most important thing – coding. 

**Create-react-app is one such toolchain which helps you create a boiler plate for React**

What you must do?

-	Read and understand [what a toolchain is and why is it important for modern web-development](https://reactkungfu.com/2015/07/the-hitchhikers-guide-to-modern-javascript-tooling/)

-	Follow the steps given in the official GitHub page of create-react-app to [install CRA in your machine.](https://github.com/facebook/create-react-app) Use the npm (Node Package Manager) method. 


## Additional resources

-	Check out a list of [alternative toolchains also used by a minority of web developers for kick-starting the React code development.](https://reactjs.org/docs/create-a-new-react-app.html) However, we will be sticking to CRA for the future coding.
