# Reaching out to the web

## Overview

In this session, we will understand how to connect React apps to web using a package called Axios. 

We will also fetch the ingredients and their counter values for 'Build My Burger App' using Axios


## Learning Outcome

Before you begin this session, it is important for you to understand the functionality of AJAX and Promises(Sprint 3). Kindly go through the topic again if you are uncomfortable understanding AJAX.

-	How to reach out to the web using React?
-	What is Axios?
-	How to use Axios?
-	What is Firebase and how to use it?
-	How to connect React data to Firebase using Axios?


## Introduction

*Understanding HTTP Requests in React*

In a typical multi page application, user requests typically end with getting back a new HTML page. For example, if you submit a form, the corresponding response, more or less, is a new HTML page. 

However, in React, since we have only a single page and we have a clear distinction between front-end, back-end and the server, we don’t receive a HTML page. We instead receive data in JSON format. Otherwise, we send data in JSON format.

*Axios*

Axios is a library, a promise-based HTTP client that works both in browser and node.js environments. We can, of course, use JavaScript’s XML HTTP requests but Axios is a library which is not related to React but fits in well with React’s policies.

## What you must do?

- Read and understand [what Axios is and what is used for](https://medium.com/@amchris98/axios-tutorial-7e1fe28b8b05)

- Read until the `Config Details subsection` of the [official documentation of Axios]() to understand it further.


*Firebase*

Firebase is a mobile and web application development platform developed by Firebase, Inc. in 2011, then acquired by Google in 2014. It not only helps develop high quality apps, but also helps store databases and many more functions. You can read about Firebase [here](https://firebase.google.com/)

*Axios – Firebase – React*

Combining the goodness of all the three applications, we get a fantastic combination. Typically, all the Axios calls are made in the componentDidMount function.

What you must do?
-	Read and understand [the working combination of Axios – Firebase - React](https://medium.com/@daveberning/setting-up-and-getting-rest-service-data-with-firebase-and-axios-8b941276f075)
-	After that get a good understanding of [why should we call Axios in componentDidMount](https://hackernoon.com/where-to-integrate-api-calls-in-reactjs-componentwillmount-vs-componentdidmount-710085dc05c3)


Assessment Quiz

1.	Axios is based on JavaScript promises. – True or False?

a.	True. [Correct answer]

b.	False.


2.	Calls for fetching data should be made in _______.

a.	render()

b.	componentDidUpdate()

c.	componentDidMount() [Correct answer]

d.	constructor


3.	componentDidMount is called on the server. – True or False?

a.	True.

b.	False. [Correct answer]


4.	You cannot cancel requests using Axios. – True or False?

a.	True.

b.	False. [Correct answer]


5.	We can make multiple Axios requests using ______.

a.	axios.collectAll()

b.	axios.all() [Correct answer]

c.	axios.together()


## Coding Practice


Move the state of the 'Build My Burger App' to a database in Firebase. 

Using Axios calls, fetch the ingredients and their counter values and update the state.
