# Prop types in React

## Overview

As an application grows, the chances of encountering bugs also increases. React recommends using a package called PropTypes for type checking while coding.

In this topic, we will understand how to do type checking using PropTypes.
We will then implement the type check for 'My Burger' project as well.


# Add project image

## Learning Outcome

- Why is type checking important in React?
- What is PropTypes and how to use them?
- How to achieve validation using PropTypes?
- What are the different types of PropTypes?

## Introduction

So far, we were passing props from outside of a component and using them inside that component. 
But one thing we didn't do is check what type of values are getting inside our Component through props.

It’s really not a compulsion to validate the data we are getting using props inside a Component. But for larger Apps, it is always a good practice to validate the data we are getting through props. This helps a lot in debugging and ensuring its robustness.



## What you must do?

(Note: You need to install PropTypes which is a different package from React using npm or yarn)

-	Read until `Available validators subsection` to understand [what PropTypes are and why they are important](https://blog.logrocket.com/validating-react-component-props-with-prop-types-ef14b29963fc/) 

-	Next, read and [understand with coded examples about PropTypes in depth](https://reactjs.org/docs/typechecking-with-proptypes.html)

-	After that, return back to the first [link](https://blog.logrocket.com/validating-react-component-props-with-prop-types-ef14b29963fc/) and continue reading from the Available validators section.

## Assessment Quiz

1.	You cannot provide default values for props using PropTypes. – True or False?

a.	True.

b.	False. [Correct answer]


2.	Which of the following syntax is correct for using PropTypes to specify that only a single child can be passed to a component to children?

a.	`children: PropTypes.singleChild`

b.	`children: 1`

c.	`children: PropTypes.element.isRequired` [Correct answer]


3.	How to ensure that the prop is limited to specific values?

a.	`value: PropTypes.oneOf([‘Apple’, ‘Pineapple’])` [Correct answer]

b.	`value: PropTypes([‘Apple’=0, ‘Pineapple’])`

c.	We cannot do this using PropTypes.


4.	Which of the following syntax is INCORRECT?

a.	`requiredFunc: PropTypes.func.isRequired`

b.	`optionalArrayOf: PropTypes.arrayOf(PropTypes.number)`

c.	`optionalBoolean: PropTypes.boolean` [Correct answer]

d.	`optionalElementType: PropTypes.elementType`


5.	PropTypes can be checked only in development mode. – True or False?

a.	True. [Correct answer]

b.	False.

## Coding practice

# Add image/ Add better instructions

In the ‘Build My Burger’ application, add PropTypes to the ingredients and their counter value text.

