# Basics of Database Management

## Overview

In this section, we will study the basics of database management and build a base for further exploration and learning.
Yet again, this is another concept which is quite distanced from frontend frameworks and website building, but it is an important chunk which is frequently discussed during interviews.

## Learning Outcome

- What is a database?
- What comprises a database management system?
- What is the need of a DBMS?

## Introduction

Database management is one of the most essential part of a computing system, it is involved with storing, retrieving data which forms the backbone of all computing operations.

In the digital age, data is the new oil. It is seen as one of the most important assets of an organisation; it is the foundation of information and the basis on which people make decisions.
Hence it would follow that if the data is accurate, complete, organised and consistent, it will contribute to the growth of the organisation. And in case of the opposite, it would become a very big liability; bad organisation of data can lead to making harmful decisions because ofincomplete information. In addition, the amount of data connected to an organisation today is on an unprecedented scale and impossible to process manually; this is why it is important to invest in an effective data management system.

## What you must do?
Read the [basics of the database management systems](https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/introduction-of-dbms-database-management-system-set-1/)

Understand the [architecture behind a DBMS](https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/introduction-of-3-tier-architecture-in-dbms-set-2/) 

Study the [need for a Database management system.](https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/need-for-dbms/)
## Additional Resources

Continue exploring using this [blog](https://medium.com/omarelgabrys-blog/database-introduction-part-1-4844fada1fb0)

## Assessment Questions

- **What are advantages of DBMS over traditional file based systems?**
Ans: Database management systems were developed to handle the following difficulties of typical Fille-processing systems supported by conventional operating systems.
	1. Data redundancy and inconsistency
	2. Difficulty in accessing data
	3. Data isolation – multiple files and formats
	4. Integrity problems
	5. Atomicity of updates
	6. Concurrent access by multiple users
	7. Security problems

- **What are super, primary, candidate and foreign keys?**
Ans: A super key is a set of attributes of a relation schema upon which all attributes of the schema are functionally dependent. No two rows can have the same value of super key attributes.
A Candidate key is minimal superkey, i.e., no proper subset of Candidate key attributes can be a superkey.
A Primary Key is one of the candidate keys. One of the candidate keys is selected as most important and becomes the primary key. There cannot be more that one primary keys in a table.
A Foreign key is a field (or collection of fields) in one table that uniquely identifies a row of another table. See this for an example.

- **What is the difference between primary key and unique constraints?**
	Ans: Primary key cannot have NULL value, the unique constraints can have NULL values. There is only one primary key in a table, but there can be multiple unique constrains.

- **What is database normalization?**
Ans: It is a process of analyzing the given relation schemas based on their functional dependencies and primary keys to achieve the following desirable properties:
1) Minimizing Redundancy
2) Minimizing the Insertion, Deletion, And Update Anomalies
Relation schemas that do not meet the properties are decomposed into smaller relation schemas that could meet desirable properties.