
# Basics of Operating Systems

## Overview
In this section, we study operating systems and the role it plays in a computer.
Knowledge of operating systems doesn't really have much to do with frontend frameworks, but as being a frontend developer is a subset of being a computer developer, therefore operating systems is something companies expect prospective employees to have knowledge about.

With the current trend of software development, everyone is valuing people with full stack skills so it is essential for one to be well versed in basics of computing and related concepts.

## Learning Outcome
- Learn basics of an operating system
- Understand the roles, an operating system plays as an intermediate between the hardware and the user
- Learn different features related to operating systems

## Introduction

An  **Operating system**  is basically a intermediary agent between the user and the computer hardware. It controls the computer resources and programs running on it.
Every computer must have at least one OS to run other programs. The OS helps you to communicate with the computer without knowing how to speak the computer's language. It is not possible for the user to use any computer or mobile device without having an operating system.

>
## What you must do?

Read [basics of operating systems](https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/introduction-of-operating-system-set-1/)

Study [different types of operating systems](https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/types-of-operating-systems/)

## Additional Resources
Deep dive into [operation systems](http://faculty.salina.k-state.edu/tim/ossg/Introduction/intro.html)

## Assessment Quiz

1. What is operating system?
a) collection of programs that manages hardware resources
b) system service provider to the application programs
c) link to interface the hardware and application programs
**d) all of the mentioned**

2. To access the services of operating system, the interface is provided by the ___________
**a) System calls**
b) API
c) Library
d) Assembly instructions

3. Which one of the following is not true?
a) kernel is the program that constitutes the central core of the operating system
b) kernel is the first part of operating system to load into memory during booting
**c) kernel is made of various modules which can not be loaded in running operating system**
d) kernel remains in the memory during the entire computer session

4. Which one of the following error will be handled by the operating system?
a) power failure
b) lack of paper in printer
c) connection failure in the network
**d) all of the mentioned**

5. What is the main function of the command interpreter?
**a) to get and execute the next user-specified command**
b) to provide the interface between the API and application program
c) to handle the files in operating system
d) none of the mentioned

6. By operating system, the resource management can be done via __________
a) time division multiplexing
b) space division multiplexing
**c) time and space division multiplexing**
d) none of the mentioned

7. If a process fails, most operating system write the error information to a ______
**a) log file**
b) another running process
c) new file
d) none of the mentioned