
# SQL and its operations

## Overview
In the previous section, we studied database management, now we will learn SQL which a language used to perform database operations. 
We will continue to revise and broaden our computing knowledge by studying SQL that is the gold standard in database management.

## Learning Outcome
- What is SQL?
- What are different data types in SQL?
- Learn most commonly used SQL commands

## Introduction

SQL is short for Structured Query Language and is a widely used database language, providing means of data manipulation (store, retrieve, update, delete) and database creation.

Almost all modern Relational Database Management Systems like MS SQL Server, Microsoft Access, MSDE, Oracle, DB2, Sybase, MySQL, Postgres and Informix use SQL as standard database language. Now a word of warning here, although all those RDBMS use SQL, they use different SQL dialects.

## What you must do?

Read about [Structured Query Language(SQL)](https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/structured-query-language/)

Study [different data types in SQL](https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/sql-datatypes/)

Learn the [SQL commands](https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/sql-ddl-dql-dml-dcl-tcl-commands/)

## Additional Resources

SQL is a big language with lot of functions so continue [learning SQL](https://www.w3schools.com/sql/sql_intro.asp) 

## Assessment Questions

- **What is SQL?**
SQL is Structured Query Language designed for inserting and modifying in a relational database system.

- **What are the differences between DDL, DML and DCL in SQL?**
Ans: Following are some details of three.
DDL stands for Data Definition Language. SQL queries like CREATE, ALTER, DROP and RENAME come under this.
DML stands for Data Manipulation Language. SQL queries like SELECT, INSERT and UPDATE come under this.
DCL stands for Data Control Language. SQL queries like GRANT and REVOKE come under this.

- **What is the difference between having and where clause?**
Ans: HAVING is used to specify a condition for a group or an aggregate function used in select statement. The WHERE clause selects before grouping. The HAVING clause selects rows after grouping. Unlike HAVING clause, the WHERE clause cannot contain aggregate functions. (See this for examples).
See Having vs Where Clause? for more details

- **What is Join?**
Ans: An SQL Join is used to combine data from two or more tables, based on a common field between them. For example, consider the following two tables.

- **What are the uses of view?**
1. Views can represent a subset of the data contained in a table; consequently, a view can limit the degree of exposure of the underlying tables to the outer world: a given user may have permission to query the view, while denied access to the rest of the base table.
2. Views can join and simplify multiple tables into a single virtual table
3. Views can act as aggregated tables, where the database engine aggregates data (sum, average etc.) and presents the calculated results as part of the data
4. Views can hide the complexity of data; for example a view could appear as Sales2000 or Sales2001, transparently partitioning the actual underlying table
5. Views take very little space to store; the database contains only the definition of a view, not a copy of all the data which it presents.
6. Depending on the SQL engine used, views can provide extra security