
# Basics of Networks

## Overview

After learning about operating systems and database management, the next topic that we will look at is networks. Studying networks gives us an insight how different systems disconnected by location or time keep in sync by communicating with each other.
As a frontend developer, who often is involved in sending and retrieving data from different servers, APIs, it becomes important to know how networks work.

## Learning Outcome
- What are networks?
- What are the uses of networks?
- What are different components of networks?

## Introduction

Technologies are evolving so fast. Networking world has changed so much in last 25 years. These days, networks with speed of 10 Gbps (Giga bits per second) are becoming common. The speed of 10 Gbps was not even imaginable 25 years back.

These days, even the smallest organization has a connection to the Internet. Almost all companies have websites and have their presence on the World Wide Web. Companies now operate on networks and do get customers via internet.

**Network**  is the interconnection of multiple devices, generally termed as Hosts connected using multiple paths for the purpose of sending/receiving data or media.

Computer networks are required for network communication and network resource sharing (printers, scanners, storage spaces etc). To build and connect computer networks, we need computers and special network infrastructure devices.

## What you must do?

Learn basics of [networks](https://www.studytonight.com/computer-networks/overview-of-computer-networks)

Understand the [uses of networks](https://www.studytonight.com/computer-networks/uses-of-computer-networks)

## Additional Resources
Expand and deep dive into computer networks with this [article.](https://medium.com/@cse247/basics-of-computer-networking-6c7b961f4e14)

## Assessment Quiz

1. When collection of various computers seems a single coherent system to its client, then it is called
a) computer network
**b) distributed system**
c) networking system
d) none of the mentioned

2. Two devices are in network if
**a) a process in one device is able to exchange information with a process in another device**
b) a process is running on both devices
c) PIDs of the processes running of different devices are same
d) none of the mentioned

3. Which one of the following computer network is built on the top of another network?
a) prior network
b) chief network
c) prime network
**d) overlay network**

4. In computer network nodes are
a) the computer that originates the data
b) the computer that routes the data
c) the computer that terminates the data
**d) all of the mentioned**

5. Communication channel is shared by all the machines on the network in
**a) broadcast network**
b) unicast network
c) multicast network
d) none of the mentioned

6. Bluetooth is an example of
**a) personal area network**
b) local area network
c) virtual private network
d) none of the mentioned

7. A __________ is a device that forwards packets between networks by processing the routing information included in the packet.
a) bridge
b) firewall
**c) router**
d) all of the mentioned

8. A list of protocols used by a system, one protocol per layer, is called
a) protocol architecture
**b) protocol stack**
c) protocol suite
d) none of the mentioned

9. Network congestion occurs
**a) in case of traffic overloading**
b) when a system terminates
c) when connection between two nodes terminates
d) none of the mentioned

10. Which one of the following extends a private network across public networks?
a) local area network
**b) virtual private network**
c) enterprise private network
d) storage area network