## Overview

This section will teach you how to render images and text responsively.

## Learning Outcome

- How to style images to be responsive on the web?
- How to render responsive texts?

### Responsive Images and Text

Mobile users often pay for every byte they download (and upload) away from wifi. HTML and CSS files, while getting larger every year, aren’t as large as hefty JPG, PNGs and animated GIFs. Conscientious designers know that best practice includes making websites and apps that download as quickly as possible. It’s like trimming out extra adverbs from copy, or extra div elements from markup.

If users don’t need pixels, don’t send them.

As we’ve seen, thinking “responsive” is more than slapping media queries into our code. Responsive images have their own set of challenges. To make sites that work well and look great on a variety of screens, they need a smart strategy for images from the beginning.

Difficult? Perhaps. Worth the effort? Yes. A picture may be worth a thousand words, but if it weighs a million bytes, then users may give up before the picture downloads.

**Typography** for multiple screens is no mean feat. There are three things we need to do from a design perspective.

First, the distance between a user's eyes and their screen depends on what kind of device they're using. Generally, the user will place the device further away when using a larger screen. This phenomenon means you need to increase your font sizes as the device width increases.

Second, we want to keep the proportions between the body text and other elements consistent. This means we have to increase the sizes of all elements as we increase the body text size.

Third, at specific breakpoints we want to increase the **font-size** of specific elements (like the h1) by picking a different number from the modular scale. Doing so allows us to control the visual hierarchy and ensures that elements garner just enough attention to pull a user to read on.

#### What you must do?

- [An important aspect of making an image responsive and fluid to adjust to various screen sizes](https://www.w3schools.com/howto/howto_css_image_responsive.asp). Not that this might not always work for all screen sizes. Sometimes you might have to handle the image resizing using media queries by playing with the image or it's parent element (e.g div) width and height.
- [This post](https://www.codementor.io/ricardozea/100-responsive-typography-system-using-a-modular-scale-s5rhft58g) will give you a perspective of modular scaling of typography on the web and also some insights on how designers perceive typography.

### Additional References

This section contains some additional helpful links.

- [Newer forms of making a image responsive](https://css-tricks.com/responsive-images-css/) is emerging but some still lack browser support. Yet, we believe you should know about the newer approaches too though yet they aren't very widely used.
- [This post speaks about fluid typography](https://css-tricks.com/snippets/css/fluid-typography/). This article compliments the post you covered in the _what you must do_ section. It also let's know how you can handle fluid typography using SASS. You don't have to go through that section yet but if you are interested, you can revisit it once you lear about CSS pre-processors.

### Summary

Sites are usually made of images and texts. It's very important for you to understand how can make texts and images scale to various screen sizes. Even our assignments and project has taken this into consideration and you would have to apply what you learnt to make texts and images responsive.

### Assessment Quiz

1. If you want the image to scale both up and down on responsiveness

- set the CSS `width` property to autoand `height` to 100%
- set the CSS `width` property to auto and `height` to auto
- set the CSS `width` property to 100% and `height` to 100%
- set the CSS `width` property to 100% and `height` to auto [Answer]

2. If you want to restrict a responsive image to a maximum size, use the **\_** property

- `max-width` [Answer]
- `width`
- `height`
- `width and height`

3. The Ratio that works best with the Base numbers of the font size is

- `1.3` [Answer]
- `1.4`
- `1.5`
- `1.6`

4. The order and the operation of \_\_\_\_ units are required for the responsive behavior of the text

- (`px + vh`)
- (`px + vw`) [Answer]
- (`em + vh`)
- (`em + vw`)

5. `vw` stands for

- `viewport width` [Answer]
- `viewport window`
- `viewport watch`
- `viewport web`
