# **Large List and React.Window**

## Overview

In this session, we will learn about how to render large lists (lists beyond 100 rows) using react.window.

This will help you in future projects where you might have to deal with creating more than 100 elements.

<br />

## Learning Outcomes

At the end of this session, you will learn:

- How to render extremely large lists in React?
- How to use react-window?

<br />


### React-window

More often than not, you will come across rendering elements that more than 100 or 1000 in number. For instance, take the example of an e-commerce website. Every mobile page search might result in close to hundreds of similar elements. To optimize creating such lists, we have ```react-window```.

#### What you must do?

- This [blog article](https://addyosmani.com/blog/react-window/) is the one-stop shop for understanding the rendering of large lists.

<br />

#### Additional Resources

- You should also have a look at react-window's [official GitHub page](https://github.com/bvaughn/react-window).


## Assessment Quiz

1. Virtualization using react-window focuses on rendering just items visible to the user. - True or False?

        a. True. [Correct answer] 
        b. False.

<br />

2. What does the ```itemSize``` property for FixedList do?

        a. It specifies the height of the outer div for scrolling.
        b. It specifies the height of each row. [Correct answer]
        c. It specifies the height of elements inside row.

<br />

3. You cannot also render lists in both vertical and horizontal direction using ```react-window```. - True or False?

        a. True.
        b. False. [Correct answer]


<br />

## Coding Assignment

In our 'Build My Burger' project, use react-window to optimize the list of 'Orders' page. 