# **Why Optimization?**

## Overview

We have learnt a great deal about development, testing, deployment, and the best practices in React. But, imagine a web application having all the great functionalities and still takes close to 120 seconds for loading? Will the users return back?

In this session, we will learn about the final piece of web development - Optimization!

<br />

## Learning Outcomes

- What is optimization?
- Why is optimization so important?
- What is SEO?
- What are some of the non-technical aspects of web optimization?

<br />

### Optimization

Following the best practices for development will definitely help you write clean and efficient code. However, if your website is not easily understood by the user or worse, it simply doesn't load, then rest assured, nobody will use your web application and you might even face the sack from your superiors. 

For that reason, along with good coding skills, you need to have an eye for optimization. Be it creating a web application like a 'Build My Burger' or a website for a corporate company, you need to know a good deal about optimization and SEO.

#### What you must do?

- This [blog post by Boris Palacios](https://www.graygroupintl.com/blog/4-reasons-on-why-website-optimization-is-important) explains a great deal about web optimization and the basic things you need to be aware of when creating a website irrespective of React or any other library.
- When you are creating websites (not web applications), it is very crucial to understand the concept of Search Engine Optimization (SEO). [This post by Alex Chris](https://www.reliablesoft.net/technical-seo/) beautifully explains the Technical SEO which is exactly what you need to know as a developer.
- Finally, look at the methods suggested by[ React's official documentation on optimization](https://reactjs.org/docs/optimizing-performance.html). It's okay if you don't understand what minifying and bundling is, we will cover it in the coming sessions.

#### Additional Resources

- [This website](https://www.searchenginejournal.com/website-optimization-essentials/280641/#close) gives the best practices for website optimization strategies.

<br />

## Assessment Quiz

1. Optimization allows search engines to understand your pages. - True or False?

        a. True. [Correct answer]
        b. False.

<br />

2. ______ SEO is the process of optimizing your website for crawling and indexing phase.

        a. On-page
        b. Off-page.
        c. Technical. [Correct answer]

<br />

3. Which of the following is a bad practice for SEO?

        a. Ensuring the web page/application is mobile-friendly.
        b. Ensuring the loading speed is less.
        c. Optimizing robots.txt file.
        d. Adding unstructured data in your home page. [Correct answer]

<br />

4. ```Pure Component```  will do a deep check of the mutation of an array in a state or props. - True or False?

        a. True.
        b. False. [Correct answer]

<br />

5. It is expected that you use the development mode when working on your app, and the production mode when deploying your app to the users. - True or False?

        a. True. [Correct answer]
        b. False.
