# **Code Splitting, React.lazy and Suspense**

## Overview

In this session, we will learn about three important concepts for web optimization in React - Code Splitting, React.lazy and Suspense.

This will help you not rely simply on keeping your bundle size smaller to make your app better.

<br />

## Learning Outcomes

At the end of this session, you will be able to

- Explore new ways of making your app load quicker.
- What is Code Splitting?
- What is React.lazy and Suspense?
- How to use these three to optimize your code?

<br />


### Code Splitting

In the previous session, we learnt a great deal about bundling and how it solves our JavaScript problems. However, while bundling may statically reduce our web application size, if we are including the third-party libraries, there is every bit of a chance that your bundle size will grow. In that case, what will we do?

#### What you must do?

- Go through this article on [React's official documentation on Code Splitting](https://reactjs.org/docs/code-splitting.html). It also touches base on React.lazy and Suspense.
- This is [a detailed article](https://tylermcginnis.com/react-router-code-splitting/) on Code Splitting and React.lazy. It contains examples to learn the sessions.


## Assessment Quiz

1. When Webpack comes across ______, it automatically starts code-splitting your app.

        a. fetch()
        b. get()
        c. import() [Correct answer]


2. The React.lazy function lets you render a dynamic import as a regular component. - True or False?

        a. True. [Correct answer]
        b. False. 


3. You cannot wrap multiple lazy components with a single ```Suspense``` component. - True or False?

        a. True.
        b. False. [Correct answer]


4. Routes is not a good place to introduce code-splitting. - True or False?

        a. True.
        b. False. [Correct answer]


5. The ```fallback``` prop is used to output the JSX in React.Suspense. - True or False?

        a. True. [Correct answer]
        b. False.



## Coding Assignment

Use React's code splitting and the fellow concepts to introduce optimization in the Burger Builder app. 

- Components like PlaceOrder which are not loaded in the beginning should be loaded on request with React.lazy.