## Overview

This section will introduce you to CSS Flexbox - a layout module

## Learning Outcome

- What is flexbox?
- How to layout your page using flexbox?

### CSS Flexbox

The “Flexible Box” or “Flexbox” layout mode offers an alternative to Floats for defining the overall appearance of a web page. Whereas floats only let us horizontally position our boxes, flexbox gives us _complete_ control over the alignment, direction, order, and size of our boxes.

The web is currently undergoing a major transition, so a little discussion around the state of the industry is warranted. For the last decade or so, floats were the sole option for laying out a complex web page. As a result, they’re well supported even in legacy browsers, and developers have used them to build millions of web pages. This means you’ll inevitably run into floats during your web development career. So, learning about floats wasn't a complete waste

However, floats were originally intended for the magazine-style layouts. The kinds of layouts you can create with floats are actually somewhat limited. Even a simple sidebar layout built using floats is, technically speaking, a little bit of a hack. Flexbox was invented to break out of these limitations.

We’re finally at a point where browser support has hit critical mass and developers can start building full websites with flexbox. Our recommendation is to use flexbox to lay out your web pages as much as possible, reserving floats for when you need text to flow _around_ a box (i.e., a magazine-style layout) or when you need to support legacy web browsers.

#### What you must do?

- [A complete guide to CSS Flexbox](https://css-tricks.com/snippets/css/a-guide-to-flexbox/)
- [Complete the game and you'd be ready to use flexbox in your own site.](https://flexboxfroggy.com/). I suggest that you complete this game twice and always use it for brushing your flexbox knowledge.

### Additional References

This section contains some additional helpful links.

- [A visual guide to flexbox](https://demos.scotch.io/visual-guide-to-css3-flexbox-flexbox-playground/demos/)
- [Another complete and visual guide to flexbox](https://themehunt.com/blog/19-web-tips-and-tricks/170-a-complete-visual-guide-to-flexbox)

### Summary

In this unit, we learnt about a new module system called Flexbox.

It was introduced in CSS3 and I highly recommend you to use it in our assignments to set the layout of the page.

### Assessment Quiz

1. To use flexbox we define a container as a flexbox. What is the CSS to do this?

- `position:absolute;`
- `float:left;`
- `display:flex;` [Answer]
- `display:block;`

2. flex-direction allows you to do what?

- `define the direction of how elements are positioned based on either row or column` [Answer]
- `define how elements will wrap when the browser width is changed`
- `define how to position elements vertically`
- `defines how position elements horizontally`

3. flex-wrap allows you to do what?

- `define the direction of how elements are positioned based on either row or column`
- `define how elements will wrap when the browser width is changed` [Answer]
- `define how to position elements vertically`
- `defines how position elements horizontally`

4. justify-content allows you to do what?

- `define the direction of how elements are positioned based on either row or column`
- `define how elements will wrap when the browser width is changed`
- `define how to position elements vertically`
- `defines how position elements horizontally` [Answer]

5. align-items allows you to do what?

- `define the direction of how elements are positioned based on either row or column`
- `define how elements will wrap when the browser width is changed`
- `define how to position elements vertically` [Answer]
- `defines how position elements horizontally`
