## Overview

This section will introduce you to CSS3 Transition, Transformation and Gradient

## Learning Outcome

- What is CSS Transition?
- What is CSS Transformation?
- What is CSS Gradient?

### CSS Transition

Normally when the value of a CSS property changes, the rendered result is instantly updated, with the affected elements immediately changing from the old property value to the new property value. This section describes a way to specify transitions using new CSS properties. These properties are used to animate smoothly from the old state to the new state over time.

#### What you must do?

- [A complete guide to CSS transitions](https://www.htmldog.com/guides/css/advanced/transitions/). Do checkout the examples section in the link.

### CSS Transform

The CSS visual formatting model describes a coordinate system within each element is positioned. Positions and sizes in this coordinate space can be thought of as being expressed in pixels, starting in the origin of point with positive values proceeding to the right and down.

This coordinate space can be modified with the `transform` property. Using transform, elements can be translated, rotated and scaled.

#### What you must do?

- [A complete guide to CSS transforms](https://www.htmldog.com/guides/css/advanced/transformations/)

### CSS Gradients

CSS gradients let you display smooth transitions between two or more specified colors.

WebKit paved the way for gradients in CSS by adding support for `-webkit-gradient` back in early 2008, and they’ve become widely used since their introduction.

Over the past several months, the CSS Working Group has had extended discussions about making the gradient syntax easier to use, and recently Tab Atkins included a proposal in the latest draft of the [Image Values and Replaced Content module](http://dev.w3.org/csswg/css3-images/). WebKit and Mozilla have now implemented this proposal so that web authors can experiment with it, and provide feedback to the Working Group.

The main goal of the new syntax is simplicity; it’s now really easy to code up common gradients. A secondary goal was to specify something where implementations were compatible across browsers.

CSS defines two types of gradients:

- **Linear Gradients (goes down/up/left/right/diagonally)**
- **Radial Gradients (defined by their center)**

#### What you must do?

- [A complete guide to CSS Gradients](https://www.htmldog.com/guides/css/advanced/gradients/)

### Additional References

This section contains some additional helpful links.

- [Learn Transitions with examples](https://css-tricks.com/almanac/properties/t/transition/)
- [Learn Transform with examples](https://css-tricks.com/almanac/properties/t/transform/)
- [Learn Gradients with example](https://css-tricks.com/css3-gradients/)

### Summary

In this unit, we learnt about a CSS Transition, Transform and Gradient which add a visual appeal to your site.

To try all the features, we suggest you to create a button (300px X 400px) and on hover add some new effect using the new properties that you have learnt. We usually use transition a lot for hover effects but it has many applications.

### Assessment Quiz

1. Which of the following property defines the length of time that a transition takes?

- `transition`
- `transition-duration` [Answer]
- `transform-duration`
- `transition-property`

2. Which of the following property defines when the transition will start and it allows a transition to begin execution some some period of time from when it is applied?

- `transform-delay`
- `transition-delay` [Answer]
- `transform-duration`
- `none of the mentioned`

3. Which of the following transform property value defines a 2D translation?

- `translate(x,y)` [Answer]
- `translate2d(x,y)`
- `translate3d(x,y)`
- `all of the mentioned`

4. Which of the following transform property value defines a translation, using only the value for the X-axis?

- `translate(x)`
- `translateZ(x)`
- `translateY(x)`
- `translateX(x)` [Answer]

5. Which of the following transform property value defines a 3D scale transformation?

- `circle(x,y,z)`
- `scale3d(x,y,z)` [Answer]
- `rotate3d(x,y,z,angle)`
- `rotate(angle)`
