# Overview
There is no such a thing as a bulletproof application. Everything is breakable, hackable, reverse-engineerable. Some are easier to hack, others are harder. Why not make it harder then, it pisses off hackers and they move to the next hack. **Base level encryption, changing the way your URIs are actually structured** to keep the application safe from Brute force attacks. **Certificate pinning** to increase the trust and encrypting all traffic in transit. Proper **session management** to ensure that the transactions are not replayed. 

# Learning Outcomes
- What is API security?
- Why is API security important?

## Introduction
It’s the age of the digital economy explosion, and massive data loads are being piped through APIs. Business, gaming, education, science, arts, you name it, everything works on APIs. For a world so fundamentally reliant on APIs, there’s surprisingly little focus on security.
Why secure API endpoints?
- Business loss - If someone succeeds in messing with your API endpoints, it will bring everything to a screeching halt.
- Compliance issues - Not securing your APIs properly can land you in serious trouble, depending on which geographies or industries you’re dealing with. 
- Reputation loss - Being hacked is painful enough in itself, but if news gets out in the public, there’s going to be an irrecoverable loss to your brand image.
- Inflated infrastructure bills - When your API runs on an infrastructure, it consumes resource. In platforms where automatic scaling of resources is enabled (like AWS), the outcomes can be shocking.
- Competitor’s gains - So let’s say there was a breach but there was no actual loss. However, your competitors will use the incident to drum up their own API and assert how much more secure theirs is (even if it’s not!).

## What you must do?
- [Security Essentials](https://restfulapi.net/security-essentials/)
- [Ways to minimize attacks by making it more secure](https://medium.com/apis-and-digital-transformation/best-practices-for-building-secure-apis-2b4eb8071d41)
- [API security checklist](https://www.templarbit.com/blog/2018/01/10/api-security-checklist/)

## Additional Resources
- [Deep Dive into Security Architectures](http://web.mit.edu/Saltzer/www/publications/protection/)
- [More Technical Deep Dive](https://github.com/OWASP/CheatSheetSeries)

## Assessment Quiz
1. What is the process called of adding expressions to the APIs while consuming them to drop, delete, update, and even create arbitrary data?
- `Stack Overflow`
- `Injections` [Correct answer]
- `Brute force`
- `Phishing`

2. Which of the following is a bad practice from a security point of view?
- `Passing token in the GET request query` [Correct answer]
- `Using password Hashing`
- `Catching all errors and returning 'Something went wrong' to the users`
- `Caching access rights to its resources`

3. How to combat unexpected surges in the API?
- `Enabling a short-lived access token`
- `Incorporating timestamps to limit the validity of the transaction to a defined time period`
- `Arrest per-app usage quota` [Correct answer]
- `Avoid sharing state among different components`

4. What does HTTPs do?
- `Protects your website from viruses`
- `Authenticate and encrypt links between networked computers` [Correct answer]
- `It is a Foolproof Plan to Prevent Hackers`
- `Makes an API request faster`
