## Overview

An Industrially aware employee is one who understands the inner workings of both the organisation they work for and the industry it operates within. This awareness not only improves their overall performance; it allows them to recognise the different trends (both political and economic) that can impact their workplace.

## Learning Outcome

- What do Employers expect apart from your technical skills?
- How to improve your awareness about a particular company and it's business?
- How to demonstrate your awareness?
- Interview questions that test your Industrial Awareness

### What do Employers expect apart from your technical skills?

You need to have a thorough understanding of the firm and the **marketplace** in which it operates. This will affect the way you work and the decisions you take in the firm.

Staying aware of changes in an industry (or in some cases, being able to predict them based on current and past trends) is a characteristic that many employers value.

For example, read about the changes happening in which the company operates and try to figure out how you can offer help technically or maybe non-technically.

This will not happen overnight. You would be determined, focused and be patient. Read about the blogs writte by your colleagues or released by the content creation department of the company, attend townhalls where people from the management address key issues that the comapny is facing, talk to your managers about the tasks to be achieved in future or what's there in the pipeline, understand the vision of the company, etc.

Understanding what's the vision and long term goal of the company will help you perceive the existing company problems distinctively and you'll be considered valuable if you could offer solutions.

### How to improve your awareness about a particular company and it's business?

The simplest, and perhaps most obvious, way to gain awareness in your chosen industry is through research.

Find resources, both online and in print, that analyse changes in the market and discuss trends in the business world.

If you are working for a company that sells products or services, read reviews.

Keep yourself up-to date through reports and articles shared via emails. Usually, mos companies want all their employees to be aware but many ignore such emails as it doesn't serve them any purpose. The more research you put in, the more your chances would improve to provide better solution and you definitely be someone in the lime light.

It's not as easy is it sounds but since many employees aren't quite aware, your chances to be a better employee definitely improves.

If you can, push yourself to socialize often with people who are not from your department. This will definitely help you immensely.

Most of the companies follow **agile/scrum** to complete tasks. Before you join, make sure you have a good grasp of this concept. References have been provided in the bottom for you o go through.

### How to demonstrate your awareness?

- **Job Application**
  Prior to an interview, make sure you learn as much as you can about the company in question. Understand the services it provides and the way in which it operates, so that you are able to ask relevant questions.
  It is also useful to memorise key names and data, such as the name of the CEO and information about financials.
  The interview itself is when your industry awareness is put to the test. See below for key questions you may be asked.
  If you are not asked questions that focus on your industry awareness, bring it up yourself in conversation.
  For example, if the company gained a new CEO, you could mention this and discuss what you believe it means for the future of the company.

- **Case Study**
  Some job applications require you to prepare a case study of the project given to you as an assignment as part of the interview process.
  The more effort you put into making these an excellent representation of your work, the more you can demonstrate how you are commercially aware.
- **Townhall Presentation**
  Present newer ideas and concepts revolving around the maketplace or the chosen field of your firm. Try to grab the attention in a positive manner which could help in your firm's growth. It doesn't have to be something that can cause a steer. An effort to bring an idea or concept to attention is also well appreciated.
- **Sprint Planning/Retrospective meeting**
  Sprint planning is basically a meeting to discuss what needs to be achieved in the upcoming meeting or discuss what went well or did go well. Try to be aware of the tasks in the pipeline/backlog and discuss it with team mates about possible solutions or enhancements. Rarely, employees go through backlog or pipeline not knowing what lies ahead.

Do not consider above to be the only points or ways to demonstrate. While working for an industry, there will be a lot of opportunities to show case your awareness.

### Interview questions that test your Industrial Awareness

**1) What Do You Believe Are the Biggest Issues Our Industry Faces Today?**
This question, while relatively straightforward, requires at least a base knowledge of the relevant industry. The more in-depth your research, the better your answer will be.

**2) What Are the Biggest Issues Our Industry Faces in the Future?**
Knowledge of current industry issues, as well as the changes made in the past, can help you to predict changes that will occur in the future.
For example, if you are seeking employment in the ticket bookig product based industry, you will know that generally sales from mobile application or website optimized for mobile would be higher than that from desktop website.

**3) What Do You like About Our Company?**
Potential employers are more likely to hire an interviewee who demonstrates broad industry awareness as well as company-specific knowledge.
This question may not be posed so positively: they may ask you to discuss any flaws the company has and how you might resolve them.

**4) How Do We Compare to Our Competitors?**
To answer, you must know who their biggest opponents are in the market. Make sure you research this prior to the interview, so you can discuss the companies in relation to each other.

Do not take this as an opportunity to praise the company you are interviewing for while criticising the competiton. Instead, answer honestly and discuss what makes the company you are interviewing for stand out.

#### What you must do?

- [Read about competency-based questions asked in interviews that require candidates to provide real-life examples](https://www.wikijob.co.uk/content/interview-advice/interview-questions/competency-based-questions)
- [The beginning round of most of the interviews are telephonic. Read about techniques that I can help you crack telephonic rounds](https://www.wikijob.co.uk/content/interview-advice/interview-types/telephone-interview)
- [Beginners guide to scrum](https://blog.forecast.it/beginners-guide-to-scrum)
- [Learn about scrum implementation](https://blog.forecast.it/implementation-of-scrum-7-steps)

### Additional References

- [Read about skills that are transferable as you progress through employment, education or training.](https://www.wikijob.co.uk/content/interview-advice/competencies/transferable-skills)
- [Learn how to be more result oriented for a industry](https://www.wikijob.co.uk/content/interview-advice/competencies/results-orientation)

### Summary

To summarise, industrial awareness is a deep understanding of both the company you work for and the industry it exists within.

While this varies from job to job, this awareness is a highly transferable skill that affects the way in which you work – making you more efficient, trustworthy and, ultimately, more employable.

It is a skill which must not be downplayed or forgotten about.

If you are preparing for a job interview and want to demonstrate your awareness, here are some quick tips to help you shine in the process:

Do your research. Try to know the ins and outs of the company. Read the company's website, Wikipedia page and LinkedIn profile.

Demonstrate your willingness to learn. If you are moving from one career to another, discuss your transferable skills – and stress how you are willing to learn and develop from the experience.

Be confident in your ability and knowledge. Your career should be your passion – if it is something you enjoy doing then industrial awareness will come naturally to you.
