## Assessment Quiz
1. A sorting technique is in place if it does not use any extra memory to sort the array.
    - True
    - False

2. When using a stable sorting technique, what happens if there are two equal keys/value
    - The relative order is maintained
    - The relative order is not important

3. The insertion sort algorithm improves on the selection sort method by reducing the number of comparisons.
    - True
    - False

4. The quick sort algorithm divides the list into two sublists, then sorts each sublists, and then combines both sublists.
    - True*
    - False

5. The merge sort algorithm differs from the quick sort only in how it partitions the list, which is to create two nearly equal sublists.
    - True
    - False

6. The following lists represent 3 passes of a sorting algorithm. Which algorithm is being used to sort the list?<br>
    4 5 9 6 2 7<br>
    4 5 6 2 7 9<br>
    4 5 2 6 7 9<br>
   - Bubble Sort
   - Selection Sort
   - Insertion Sort

7. Consider a situation where swap operation is very costly. Which of the following sorting algorithms should be preferred so that the number of swap operations are minimized in general?
    - Heap Sort
    - Selection Sort
    - Insertion Sort
    - Merge Sort

8. Assume that a merge sort algorithm in the worst case takes 30 seconds for an input of size 64. Which of the following most closely approximates the maximum input size of a problem that can be solved in 6 minutes?

    - 256
    - 512
    - 1024
    - 2048
