# Wrap Up

## What you learnt
You saw two of the most important algorithms in computer science. Searching and sorting algorithms are widely used in various applications ranging from Operating System to Networked Communication. You looked at different types of searching and sorting algorithms and compared the runtime complexities to identify which are more optimum.

## Key Takeaways
- Searching is the process of finding an item with specified properties from a
collection of items.
- Linear Search iterates to through the data structure holding the values (eg. list) until it finds the element or not. Its runtime complexity is O(n)
- Binary Search uses a divide and conquer approach. It takes a data structure that is SORTED in ascending order, divides it on the midpoint. If the midpoint is greater than the element to be searched, it does the same on the left sub part else on the right till the element is found. It works at an O(logn) run time.
- Sorting as the name suggests is the operation that converts the data structure into ascending or descending order. Some algorithms perform better than others
- Bubble sort being the most basic but also the most expensive has a runtime O(n*n). It iterates through the list with nested loops and swaps elements in order one after the other.
- Merge Sort performs better by using the divide and conquer approach.
- Even though most languages support inbuilt fast sorting and searching algorithms, it is important to know how they work under-the-hood.
