
## Assessment Quiz

- What is the worst case time complexity for search, insert and delete operations in a general Binary Search Tree?
-- O(n) for all
-- O(Logn) for all
-- O(Logn) for search and insert, and O(n) for delete
-- O(Logn) for search, and O(n) for insert and delete

- In delete operation of BST, we need inorder successor (or predecessor) of a node when the node to be deleted has both left and right child as non-empty. Which of the following is true about inorder successor needed in delete operation?
-- Inorder Successor is always a leaf node
-- Inorder successor is always either a leaf node or a node with empty left child
-- Inorder successor may be an ancestor of the node
-- Inorder successor is always either a leaf node or a node with empty right child


- Which of the following traversal outputs the data in sorted order in a BST?
-- Preorder
-- Inorder
-- Postorder
-- Level order

- Suppose the numbers 7, 5, 1, 8, 3, 6, 0, 9, 4, 2 are inserted in that order into an initially empty binary search tree. The binary search tree uses the usual ordering on natural numbers. What is the in-order traversal sequence of the resultant tree?
-- 7 5 1 0 3 2 4 6 8 9
-- 0 2 4 3 1 6 5 9 8 7
-- 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9
-- 9 8 6 4 2 3 0 1 5 7

- The following numbers are inserted into an empty binary search tree in the given order: 10, 1, 3, 5, 15, 12, 16. What is the height of the binary search tree (the height is the maximum distance of a leaf node from the root)?
-- 2
-- 3
-- 4
-- 6