# Overview
When two systems talk to each other, there needs to be an agreed convention between the two so that they understand each other. We will look at a couple of conventions being followed in Web services, starting with XML. XML, or Extensible Markup Language, is a markup language that you can use to create your own tags. This way it's easy for a machine to process the information. XML is hardly used anymore, so no need to focus as much on it. It's good to know a bit of history though.

# Learning Outcomes
- Some of the widely accepted transport formats.
- Comparison of different kinds of formats.
- History and why the need arose for different formats.

## Introduction
Processes need to interact with each other and hence they need to speak in same language. The serialization is the process of translating data structures and code objects into data stream in a format that can be stored or transmitted and deserialize back to origin data structure and code objects.

XML and JSON are the two most common formats for data interchange in the Web today. XML was created by the W3C in 1996, and JSON was publicly specified by Douglas Crockford in 2002. Although their purposes are not identical, they are frequently used to accomplish the same task, which is data interchange. Both have well-documented open standards on the Web, and both are human and machine-readable. Neither one is absolutely superior to the other, as each is better suited for different use cases.

Before XML there were lots of plain text formats for sending messages. Each was different, most of them were poorly specified, so it was never 100% clear what was allowed and what wasn't. People designing such formats ended up putting lots of effort into designing the syntax, leaving not enough time to go into designing the semantics. Anyone receiving data in such a format had to write their own parser. Most people aren't good at writing parsers (they skipped those lectures in their computer science education, or they never had a computer science education in the first place), so they did it badly and got it wrong. So XML arrived and did away with all that. People designing messages could now concentrate on the semantics of the data rather than inventing yet another syntax. People writing code to read and write messages could use XML libraries "off the shelf" rather than hand-crafting their own. Schema languages were invented that allowed the validation code to be automated. High-level transformation and query languages were invented so you didn't have to grovel around the data in low-level procedural code.

And God saw that it was good. Well, Microsoft, Sun, Oracle, and IBM did, and that was good enough for most people.

## What you must do?
- [What is xml?](https://www.w3schools.com/xml/xml_whatis.asp)
- [Why and where was xml used?](https://www.go4expert.com/articles/xml-web-design-development-t30214/)
