## Overview

This section will provide you with an assessment quiz to refresh the concepts that you have learned.


### Assessment Quiz

1. Inside which HTML element do we put the JavaScript?
- `<body>`
- `<html>`
- `<javascript>`
- `<script>` 

2. What is the correct JavaScript syntax to change the content of the HTML element below?  
  `<p id="demo">This is a demonstration.</p>`
- `document.getElementByName("p").innerHTML = "Hello World!";`
- `#demo.innerHTML = "Hello World!";`
- `document.getElement("p").innerHTML = "Hello World!";`
- `document.getElementById("demo").innerHTML = "Hello World!";` 

3. Where is the correct place to insert a JavaScript?
-   `<head>`
-   `<body>`
-   `<head> and <body>` 

4. How do you create a function in JavaScript?
- `function myFunction()` 
- `function = myFunction()`
- `function:myFunction()`

5.How to write an IF statement for executing some code if "i" is NOT equal to 5?
 - `if (i <> 5) {}`
 - `if i <> 5 {}`
 - `if (i !== 5) {}` 
 - `if (i =!= 5) {}`

6. How can you add a comment in a JavaScript?
- `<!-- this is a comment -->`
- `!this is a comment!`
- `// This is a comment`

7. What is the correct way to create a JavaScript array?
- `var numbers = (1, 2, 3, 4)`
- `arr numbers = (1, 2, 3, 4)`
- `var numbers = Array(1, 2, 3, 4)`
- `var numbers =[1, 2, 3, 4]`

8. Which operator is used to assign a value to a variable?
- `x`
- `=`
- `-`
- `*`

9. Which of the following function of String object combines the text of two strings and returns a new string?
- `add()`
- `merge()`
- `concat()` 
 - `append()`

10. Which of the following function of String object returns the calling string value converted to upper case?
- `toCapitalCase()`
- `toUpperCase()` 
- `toUpperString()`
- `upstring()`
