## What did you learn?

By now, you should have a good understanding of basics of JavaScript.

At the end of this concept, you should be able to clear a list of random and duplicate numbers and sort it in ascending order.

## Key take-aways

- You have a clear understanding of what is JavaScript and why is it used in Web Development.
- You have learnt the basics of JavaScript
- You can declare and define variables, functions, arrays and objects.
- You learnt the basics of data structures in JavaScript
- You know how to manipulate the DOM
- You learnt how to validate forms.

## Coding Practice


In this assignment, you'd be given an array of numbers with duplicate values and you'd have to write a function to return an array of approximately equally divided sorted array of unique numbers.

## Your Tasks

### Task 1

if the user provides an array of numbers say

> [1, 10, 20, 2, 5, 2, 2, 2, 5, 3, 4, 8]

### Task 2

If the total count of numbers is one and the array cannot be divided into exactly 2 arrays of same length, then return an array of only one array. So say, we have an array:

> [3]

Then, the final result would be:

> [[3]]

### Sample Input

[1, 9, 2, 3, 3, 3, 3, 3, 4, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 5, 6, 6, 9, 10, 10]

### Sample Output

[[1, 2, 3, 4, 5], [6, 7, 8, 9, 10]]

### Constraints

- 1 < number < 10^3

- 2 < Array of numbers < 10^3




## How will it help the project?

Since, you have learnt the basics, you'd be able to use this concepts in the final project. You'll create functions for performing operations such as retreiving news from the server, you'll declare variables to store result and you'd manipulate the DOM to render your content.

Next, you'd learn about AJAX and how it helps in retrieving data from the server asynchronously. The mention of "Asynchronously" must have confused you. Do not worry, we'll be coverinng it extensively.
