## Overview

This section will help you in understanding CSS Pre-processors and will get you started with one of the widely used CSS Pre-processors.

## Learning Outcome

- What is a CSS Pre-processor?
- What is SASS?
- What are the benefits of using SASS?
- How to install SASS for your platform?

### CSS Pre-processors

Even though CSS is an integral part of website development, we are limited by its conventions of selectors and properties. Preprocessors are programs that offer the variables missing in CSS. Preprocessors were created to organize CSS via nested definitions, making your code easier to maintain. Preprocessors extend CSS with variables, operators, interpolations, functions, mixins, and many other usable assets.

Essentially, a preprocessor takes code that you’ve written in the preprocessed language and converts it into simple CSS code. The preprocessor is comprised of a language, the code that you write, and a compiler that converts the code into standard CSS which is easily read and processed by any web browser.

Even though preprocessors have different syntax, they all support a CSS output. More importantly, the resulting CSS file that preprocessors produce functions as regular CSS, so there is no incompatibility with your program.

Two of the popular CSS preprocessors are **Sass (Syntactically Awesome Stylesheets SASS )** and **Less (Leaner CSS)**.

#### What you must do?

- [Get an overview and read about the benefits of using a CSS Preprocessors](https://htmlmag.com/article/an-introduction-to-css-preprocessors-sass-less-stylus)
- If you use Windows, install [Chocolatey](https://chocolatey.org/) by following the steps on the site. Then, open your command line interface (terminal) and paste this command `choco install sass`. Hit enter.
- If you use Mac, install [Homebrew](https://brew.sh/) by following the steps on the site. Then, open your command line interface (terminal) and paste this command `brew install sass/sass/sass`. Hit enter.
- [Get to know one of the popular CSS Pre-processor i.e SASS](https://sass-lang.com/guide) and understand the basics of SASS. Make sure you have installed SASS correctly for your platform before you proceed with this article because you'll learn how to compile your sass file to css file.

### Additional References

This section contains some additional helpful links.

- [10 reasons to use a css preprocessor](https://raygun.com/blog/10-reasons-css-preprocessor/)

### Summary

Knowing how to make a responsive grid is an essential part of web development.

Whether you’re creating a portfolio page for a photographer, an e-commerce site, or a landing page, it’s all going to be based on a grid layout. Grids are everywhere.

If you know how to build a good, responsive grid layout, you’ll immediately stand out as a front-end web developer. The grid is a tried-and-true method of organizing visual elements in media.

Designers have implemented grids since the first days of print newspapers and advertisements.

Using a grid creates an aesthetically pleasing composition that is easy for the brain to take in and comprehend. So it’s something that you definitely want to use in your websites.

### Assessment Quiz

1. SASS stands for

- Syntactically Awesome Stylesheets [Answer]
- Semantically Augmented Stylesheets
- Stylus Augmented Stylesheets

2. What are the most attractive features of SASS?

- It is more stable, powerful and fully compatible to CSS3
- It is time saving because it facilitates you to write CSS in less code
- It uses its own syntax
- All of these [Answer]

3. What are the reasons behind using SASS?

- You can write codes easily and efficiently and they are easy to maintain
- It is a pre-processing language which provides its own syntax for CSS
- It is a superset of CSS which contains all the features of CSS and is an open source pre-processor
- All of the above [Answer]
