# Proof of Concepts (PoC) and Contract Discussions

## Overview

Let's continue diving deep into the different steps of SDLC.

This session will help you understand what a PoC is and why is it relevant to a majority of the web development companies in the world. Additionally, it will also give you a glimpse of what a software development contract should look like.

This SDLC step is more inclined towards the legal/ main stakeholder aspect. Therefore in a way, it's one of the most important steps to understand. 


## Learning Outcome

To understand this topic, you need to have a good understanding of the various SDLC models taught in the previous topic. If you are not thorough with the SDLC models, kindly read through the previous topics

- What is a Proof of Concept (PoC)?
- 	Why are PoCs important in today’s software and web product industry?
-	How are PoCs different from development?


## Introduction

*Proof of Concepts*

Proof of Concepts (PoCs) are widely popular across prominent startups as well as companies delving into new ventures.

 Essentially, PoC is a process to determine whether the idea conceptualized can be implemented in the real world. Moreover, it also helps the project team understand what technologies can be used for development and how widely accepted will this idea be.

Stakeholders involved: Typically the UX designers, developers and testers are involved here.

Outcome of this phase: As mentioned in the description, at the end of a PoC phase, the team has a fairly good assessment of whether the project can be implemented.


What you must do?

-	Read and understand [what a PoC is and what are the steps involved in making one](https://designli.co/blog/5-steps-proof-concept-successful-software-development/)


*Software Development Contract*

Once the design has been approved and there has been a successful implementation of PoC, a typical SDLC cycle would now involve the product team to sign a contract with the client or customers. This is generally handled by the product manager or a separate team which handles the financial and legal aspects of the product.

Now, there is no need to deep-dive into the legal details of what goes into making a contract. However, you should have a good understanding of what are the responsibilities and deliverables of the product team, in general, and what can the user expect in terms of services and at what price.

Stakeholders involved: At this stage, specifically three parties are involved. The first party is the client. The second, depending on the team structure, would be the project manager and/or the client-facing team and the third is the legal team which whips us the details of the contract.

Outcome of this phase: This phase marks the end of an introduction phase. After this phase, the core development begins.


What you must do?

-	Read and understand [what a software development contract is and what it should include](https://selvams.com/blog/5-things-every-software-developer-should-include-in-his-software-development-agreementcontract/)

Additional resources

- You can get into more depth and read a [detailed explanation from a legal point of view for a software development contract](https://seqlegal.com/blog/software-development-agreements-checklist)

-	Read the [‘What should a web design contract contain?’ section](https://www.beewits.com/web-design-contract/) to understand about a contract specifically for web development projects. 