# Deployment & Maintenance

## Overview

We are now at the final SDLC phases.

These phases are important because this is the implementation phase i.e. the phase that will be visible to the web app users/consumers.


This topic will help you understand the final two phases of Software Development Life Cycle – Deployment & Maintenance.


Learning Outcome

- What is deployment?
- How is deployment done?
- What is maintenance and why is it necessary?
- Who handles maintenance?


## Introduction

*Deployment*

The penultimate phase of the SDLC is deployment. After the product has been thoroughly tested, it’s time to move the product to the production environment where the users can officially use it. We will read more in detail about the process of deployment later in the sprint.

Stakeholders involved: Developers with DevOps speciality are crucial for this phase. Depending on the team structure, the rest of the developers also can pitch in with this task.

Outcome of this phase: At the end of this phase, we finally have a product which can be used by the client and the end users.


What you must do?
-	Deployment phase is when you deliver the product to the client and that of course makes the step very important. Learn and understand more about [the importance of deployment](https://www.thedigitalmentor.com/what-is-deployment-in-sdlc/)

-	Understand all the crucial [points involved in the process of deployment](https://robertdblog.wordpress.com/sdlc-software-deployment-phase/)



*Maintenance*

Even after a product has been delivered, there are always chances of users encountering a bug. Moreover, at times the user might even request for an additional feature. 

This phase is called as the Maintenance phase of SDLC. This phase is what leads to longetivity of any web application you make.


Stakeholders involved: Every team member has a bit part role involved in this phase.

Outcome of this phase: Now that the product is developed and delivered, this phase is more or less never-ending until the product is decommissioned or destroyed. This phase just involves maintaining the product for consistent user experience.

What you must do?
-	Understand in detail about [the maintenance phase for SDLC here](https://www.tutorialspoint.com/software_engineering/software_maintenance_overview.htm) 



Assessment Quiz

1.	Which of the following is NOT a process involved in deployment?

a.	Installing the system.

b.	Communicate the communication channel to the clients.

c.	Revise previous documentation.

d.	Take input from the clients. [Correct answer]

2.	Which of the following describes Adaptive Maintenance?

a.	Modifications for problems found out by the users.

b.	Modifications for dealing with problems which might cause problems in the future. 

c.	Modifications for keeping the product software up-to date. [Correct answer]

d.	Modifications for adding new features and new user requirements.

3.	Which of the following correctly describes Reverse Engineering?

a.	Process to re-structure the existing code.

b.	Achieve system specification by looking at the code, getting the design and then conclude the specification. [Correct answer]

c.	Obtaining desired software from the specifications in hand.

d.	Reusing components.

4.	_______ maintenance includes modifications and updates done in order to fix problems discovered by user.

a.	Preventive.

b.	Perfective.

c.	Corrective. [Correct answer]

d.	Adaptive.

5.	It is important to document any user request for a change to system – True or false?

a.	True [Correct answer]

b.	False
