# Requirement Gathering + UX/UI Design

## Overview

In the previous topic, we looked at a bird's eye view of the entire SDLC cycle.

To appreciate the SDLC cycle fully, it's important to understand in depth about its each step.

This topic(as well as the remaining topics in this concept) are focused on diving deeper and gaining greater understanding of each step. 

In this topic, learn about the first two phases of the Software Development Life Cycle( i.e Understand the ‘what’, ‘how’ and ‘why’ of Requirement Gathering and UX/UI Design)

## Learning Outcome

-	What is Requirement Gathering and why is it called the most crucial phase of SDLC?

-	What are the different techniques of Requirement Gathering?
-	What is the Design phase of SDLC?
-	What are wireframes and high-fidelity product designs?
-	What is achieved at the end of phase 1 and phase 2 of SDLC?


## Introduction

*Requirement Gathering Analysis*

The very first phase of any software development is called the Requirement Gathering or Requirement Elicitation phase. This phase is the most crucial part of any development cycle. In this phase, we create the foundation of the entire software. 

Stakeholders involved: All the stakeholders from the customers and the users to the IT team and the vendors, as well as the developers, are actively involved in this stage.

Outcome of this phase: Together, the stakeholders create a document that enlists the requirements (functional, non-functional, technical, system, etc.) for building the software. This document is the blueprint for creating the software and it will be referred to at every stage of the cycle. 

What you must do?

-	Understand the [importance of Requirement Gathering by reading this article](https://www.bbconsult.co.uk/blog/requirements-gathering) and why it is the most crucial phase of SDLC.

-	Read the [‘What techniques can be used?’ section]((https://www.inflectra.com/ideas/topic/requirements-gathering.aspx)) of the article to understand the different techniques that can be used for requirements gathering.


*UX/UI Design*

Once the requirements document has been created and signed off by every stakeholder of the team, the next phase of SDLC is the designing phase. 

**This stage is the first step towards creating the software**.

Stakeholders involved: The UX/UI designer is the primary stakeholder in this phase.

Outcome of this phase: At the end of this phase, we have a clear picture of what the product should look at the end of SDLC cycle.

What you must do?

-	Read about the entire [end to end process involved in the  design phase of a software](https://sdlc.uconn.edu/activity-4-design/)

- The two design deliverables that are most often associated with UX design are 'Wireframes' and 'Prototypes'. Most beginners confuse them and use them interchangeably. Read and understand 
[how Wireframes and Protypes fit into UX design process](https://theblog.adobe.com/everything-you-need-to-know-about-wireframes-and-prototypes/)


## Assessment Quiz

1.	What happens during the requirements gathering phase of SDLC?

a.	The customer pays for the product.

b.	The customer expresses his expectations of the product.

c.	The project team list down each requirement. [Correct answer]

d.	The project manager hires the team.

2.	Which of the following statement is false?

a.	At the end of the design phase, the design needs to be approved by the client.

b.	Client interaction and reviewing is the most important part of design phase.

c.	Wireframes are low-fidelity designs.

d.	Wireframes give an actual dynamic feel of how a software should work. [Correct answer]

3.	Which of the following correctly describes a wireframe?

a.	A design consisting of HD images and text which defines exactly what a web page will look like when it’s finally delivered.

b.	A low-resolution design which merely shows the client where elements would be ideally placed in the actual product. [Correct answer]

c.	A working prototype for users to play around with.

d.	The beta version of the final product. 

4.	Which of the following is NOT a method for requirement elicitation?

a.	Questionnaires.

b.	User Observations.

c.	Role playing.

d.	Pamphlets. [ Correct answer]

5.	What is the role of a developer in the UX/UI Design phase?

a.	Design system architecture.

b.	Provide architectural plan down to the physical level.

c.	Assist in finalizing data conversion strategy. [Correct 
answer]

d.	Assist in finalizing testing strategy.
