# **Introduction to styling in React**

## Overview

In this introduction session to the module, you will learn about the different ways to style elements in React.

<br />

## Learning Outcome

To understand this module perfectly, you will need to have prior knowledge about CSS. You should understand how to style certain elements using stylesheets and if not all, at least the major CSS properties. If you think you still need to have a heads up, kindly go through the previous sprints before beginning this section.

•	How to style elements in React?

•	What are the different ways of styling elements in React?

<br />

### Styling in React

In traditional CSS, we had three different methods of writing styles for DOM elements. They were namely: Inline, Internal and External stylesheets. 
In React, we can follow a fairly similar pattern but with a minor few changes.

#### What you must do?
•	Check out [this excellent article](https://codeburst.io/4-four-ways-to-style-react-components-ac6f323da822) by Agata Krzywda on the four ways to style React components.

<br />

## Assessment Quiz

1.	In React, inline styles are specified as a string. – True or False?

        a.	True
        b.	False [Correct answer]


2.	Which of the following is a correct method of implementing inline styles in React?

        a.	const divStyle = {{margin-top: 20px}}
        b.	const divStyle = {marginTop: ‘20px’} [Correct answer]
        c.	const divStyle = {margin-top: 20px}
        d.	const divStyle = {marginTop: 20px}


3.	Can we pass styling directly to the element in inline CSS for React?

        a.	Yes. [Correct answer]
        b.	No.


4.	We cannot have individual stylesheets for every component. – True or False?

        a.	True.
        b.	False. [Correct answer]


5.	If we are using CSS Modules with create-react-app, what do we need to make the modules to work with React components?

        a.	Add :local to the style encapsulated in parentheses. [Correct answer]
        b.	Add :module to the styles encapsulated in parentheses.
        c.	Add :component-name to the styles encapsulated in parentheses.
        d.	We don’t need to do anything. It will work normally.

