## Overview

In the last section we learnt about the text formating and css colors. This section will introduce you to CSS Scrollbar, Visibility of an element on the page and display to handle the layout of the element. You'd be using the display property quite often to set the layout and to group elements. It also helps you with over riding the default display behavior of an element.

## Learning Outcome

- How to make the content scrollable on the page?
- How to handle the visibility of a content?
- How to handle the layout of an element using the display property?

### CSS Scrollbar, Visibility and Display

The `overflow` property specifies whether to clip the content or to add scrollbars when the content of an element is too big to fit in the specified area.

The **`visibility`** CSS property shows or hides an element without changing the layout of a document. The property can also hide rows or columns in a `<table>`.

The **`display`** CSS property sets whether an element is treated as a block or inline element and the layout used for its children, such as flow layout, grid or flex.

#### What you must do?

- Read about [restricting content on the page and still displaying it within the boundaries of the box layout using scrollbar](https://www.tutorialspoint.com/css/css_scrollbars.htm)
- [Learn how to hide or view element using CSS Visibility](https://www.tutorialspoint.com/css/css_visibility.htm). A question might arise in your mind as to why would I hide an element if I want to show it to the user. Do you remember forms? What if we want to show the user that he/she has committed a mistake while filling the form? You might have to render the error message and only show it if he/she commits any mistake. This is just one of the examples to give an idea of how we might use it.
- Read about [display property which plays a vital role in setting the layout of the element or group of elements](https://css-tricks.com/almanac/properties/d/display/). It's okay if you get confused about the value flex. We'll be covering it in detail in one of our unit.

### Additional References

This section contains some additional helpful links.

- Developers usually get confused in the beginning while understanding and implementing inline vs inline block. Here is a [post](https://alligator.io/css/display-inline-vs-inline-block/) that covers it in detail.
- [Understand the difference between hiding the element using `display: none` and `visibility: hidden`](https://www.lifewire.com/display-none-vs-visibility-hidden-3466884)

### Summary

In this topic, we learnt about CSS Display, Visibility and Scrollbars.

An example has already been provided for giving you clarity on Visibility. Another example would be to show an icon or image only on hovering an element.

Sometimes, you don't want to bombard a lot of content when the user visit your sites. You can make the content available in a widget that scrolls separately on a page or maybe create a 2 or 3 column layout that has separate scrolls

Check the [horizontally scrollable view](https://codepen.io/glebkema/pen/EbQVaw) as an example.

### Assessment Quiz

1. How can make `<span>` to act like a block level element?

- `display: inline-block`
- `display: inline`
- `display: span-block`
- `display: block` 

2. How can I hide a tag with classname hide - `<span class="hide">`?

- `.hide { visibility: hidden; }`
- `.hide { display: none; }`
- `All the above` 

3. How can only make the x-axis to be scrollable?

- `overflow-x: scroll` 
- `overflow-xAxis: scroll`
- `overflow-horizontal: scroll`
- `overflow-y: scroll`

4. How can I hide the overflowing content?

- `overflow: hidden` 
- `overflow: auto`
- `overflow: hide`
- `overflow: none`

5. Which property creates spaces around them?

- `display: inline`
- `display: inline-block` 
- `display: block`
