# Introduction to JSX

## Overview

In the previous topic, we learned that ReactJS extensively uses JSX for coding.


In fact one of the most important features of ReactJS is its usage of JSX – a syntactical extension to JavaScript. 

# Add codepen image

In this concept, we will understand what is JSX and how to write code in JSX.

## Learning Outcome
-	What is JSX?

-	Why do we use JSX in ReactJS?

-	What is the difference between JSX, JavaScript and HTML?


## Introduction


To explain JSX in layman terms, it’s more like a template language. Essentially, you can create HTML DOM elements and store it in variables. 

Can you imagine the numerous advantages you can receive by doing that?

## What you must do?

-	Go through the official React documentation and familiarise yourself with [JSX and its syntax](https://reactjs.org/docs/introducing-jsx.html) 

## Additional Resources

-	Watch the video to [understand why JSX is important](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=x7cQ3mrcKaY)

-	Check out this [JSX cheat sheet](https://frontarm.com/james-k-nelson/jsx-live-cheatsheet/) to have an additional understanding of JSX.


## Assessment Quiz

1.	Which of the following is the correct syntax for JSX?

a.	`let element = “<h1> Hello </h1>”;`

b.	`element(“<h1>Hello</h1>”);`

c.	`let element = <h1> Hello </h1>; [Correct answer]`


2.	Which of the following is not TRUE?

a.	You can add multiple nested elements in JSX statements.

b.	`let element = <h1>[props.children]</h1>` is a correct syntax for JSX. [Correct answer]

c.	We use {} braces when props are variables or literals.

3.	You can call a function with arguments inside the curly braces while using JSX. – True or False?

a.	True. [Correct answer]

b.	False.

4.	Can we use JSX inside if statements and for loops?

a.	Yes. [Correct answer]

b.	No.

5.	Babel compiles JSX down to objects. – True or False?

a.	True. [Correct answer]

b.	False.


