## Overview

JavaScript is huge. Pat yourself at the back for having reached this far. The course was broken into the essentials and the advanced JS concepts being used by the Industry. In this section, we'll be exploring the Advanced concepts of data structures that simplifies JS and provides more power to the developer.

By the end of this section, you'd see popular algorithmic and data structural concepts developed using JavaScript. You might never use them to solv ereal world problems, but it's always good to know about these algorithms as they have been the building blocks of computer science. We recommend you to keep yourself with upcoming algorithms. Understand Algorithms and data structures build by others helps you gain insights on how other developers think and solve problems. Try to come up with your own algorithms ;)

## Learning Outcome

- What are the advanced concepts of handling data structures?

### Advanced Data Structure

In addition to having aesthetic understanding of HTML and CSS, Frontend Engineers are expected to master JavaScript as well. As data stores on the client become “replicas” of databases on the server, intimate knowledge of idiomatic data structures becomes pivotal. In fact, an engineer’s level of experience can be inferred from his or her ability to distinguish _when_ and _why_ to use a particular data structure.

> Bad programmers worry about the code. Good programmers worry about data structures and their relationships.
>
> — Linus Torvalds, Creator of Linux and Git

#### What you must do?

- Go through the [post](http://blog.benoitvallon.com/data-structures-in-javascript/data-structures-in-javascript/) that covers the essential data structure concepts and algorithms. Note that your focus should be more on the various concepts outlined in the tutorial and then the algorithms. It's okay if you understand what the algorithm you are reading about does and skip the implementation part for now. You should revisit them later though.

### Additional References

This section contains some additional helpful links.

- Dive deeper into the [Data Structures and Algorithms in JavaScript](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=t2CEgPsws3U) watch this video to understand basic data structure and algorithms in Javascript
