## Overview

This concept will help you understand Package managers.

After covering this topic, you'll be able to use package managers to install libraries that would help you in your respective projects. Package managers are very helpful for maintaining the version of a particular package so that breaking changes aren't introduced and for organizing everything in a single folder.

## Learning Outcome

- What is package manager?
- What is npm?
- What is yarn?

### Package managers

A **package** is a reusable piece of software which can be downloaded from a global registry into a developer’s local environment. Each package may or may not depend on other packages.

Simply put — a package manager is a piece of software that lets you manage the **dependencies** (external code written by you or someone else) that your project needs to work correctly.

#### What you must do?

- Using npm effectively is a cornerstone of modern web development, no matter if it's exclusively with Node.js, as a package manager or build tool for the front-end, or even as a piece of workflows in other languages and on other platforms. Go through an absolute [beginners guide to using npm](https://nodesource.com/blog/an-absolute-beginners-guide-to-using-npm/)
- Yarn is a JavaScript Package Manager, a direct competitor of npm, and it’s one of the Facebook Open Source projects. It’s compatible with npm packages, so it has the great advantage of being a drop-in replacement for npm. When it launched it used to be way faster than npm due to parallel download and caching, but now npm did catch up with many of its features and is now the solution I recommend. Learn all the [things you need to know about Yarn](https://flaviocopes.com/yarn/)

### Additional References

This section contains some additional helpful link.

- NPM and yarn both are package managers that perform the same task. They why do some devs prefer NPM and some prefer yarn? Understand the difference between [npm and yarn](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DRIWL2QOtmg)

