## Overview

Remember reading about Forms in HTML? In this section, you'll understand the basics of form validation.

After covering this topic, you should be able to validate forms filled by user before submitting. Create a form input that accepts only alphabets. If user enters any other character, show a validation error.

With this concept covered, your foundation of javascript conncepts should be stronger. Once you clear the quiz, you should attempt the assignment to remove duplicated from the array of random and duplicate numbers.

## Learning Outcome

- What is form validation?
- Why do we need to validate forms?

### Form Validation

Forms are used in webpages for the user to enter their required details that are further sent to the server for processing. A form is also known as web form or HTML form. Examples of form use are prevalent in e-commerce websites, online banking, online surveys, etc. to name a few.

Form validation normally used to occur at the server, after the client had entered all the necessary data and then pressed the Submit button. If the data entered by a client was incorrect or was simply missing, the server would have to send all the data back to the client and request that the form be resubmitted with correct information. This was really a lengthy process which used to put a lot of burden on the server.

JavaScript provides a way to validate form's data on the client's computer before sending it to the web server. Form validation generally performs two functions.

- **Basic Validation** − First of all, the form must be checked to make sure all the mandatory fields are filled in. It would require just a loop through each field in the form and check for data.

- **Data Format Validation** − Secondly, the data that is entered must be checked for correct form and value. Your code must include appropriate logic to test correctness of data.

#### What you must do?

- How to create and validate the form is important in js. Basics of [form validation](https://o7planning.org/en/12273/javascript-form-validation-tutorial)
- Please code along rather than just reading.

### Assessment Quiz

1. Using HTML and JavaScript to validate form input is an example of **\_**.

- `Client side validation` [Correct Answer]
- `Server side validation`
- `Both Client and Server side validation`
- `User side`

2. How to find the index of a particular string?

- `pos()`
- `index()`
- `indexOf()` [Correct Answer]
- `posOf()`

3. Which new input was introduced with HTML5??

- `submit`
- `text`
- `radio`
- `email` [Correct Answer]

4. If I need to check the data type of a user input, what keyword should I use?

- `type`
- `dataType`
- `typeof` [Correct Answer]
- `data_type`
