# Redirections and conditional redirects

## Overview

In this session, we will learn about how to implement redirection and how to conditionally redirect routes in React.

<br />

## Learning Outcome

•	How to achieve Redirection in case of failures?

•	How to use the <Redirect /> component?

•	How to conditionally render or redirect paths?


### Redirections

To begin understanding the rest of the course, we first need to understand what redirection is. Let’s just say you wanted to fetch some data which would create a component in React for you. But due to some failure, the fetching and hence the component rendering failed. Probably, you don’t have any render boundaries set up on your project. In such a case, you would probably want the user to not see React’s default error page but instead take the user to a custom error page. This is called redirection.

Of course, there are many flavors to this term, but the general essence of the term is to take the user to something else. 

#### What you must do?

•	First, read [this article](https://learnwithparam.com/blog/redirect-route-in-react-router/) for understanding redirection.
•	Next, also read [this article](https://tylermcginnis.com/react-router-programmatically-navigate/) for programmatically navigating redirects.
•	Finally, [this article](https://medium.com/@anneeb/redirecting-in-react-4de5e517354a) provides an alternative to ```<Redirect>```.

<br />

## Assessment Quiz

1.	_______ component is traditionally used for directing the users to a relevant page, if not authorized.

        a.	<Direct />
        b.	<Redirect /> [Correct answer]
        c.	<Take />
        d.	<Alternate />


2.	When the component is rendered, the existing location of the history object is replaced with a new location. – True or False?

        a.	True. [Correct answer]
        b.	False. 


3.	If we don’t want to override the existing history location, we will include the ___ property to add a new entry to the history.

        a.	push [Correct answer]
        b.	pull
        c.	drop
        d.	add


4.	```<Redirect />``` is composable. – True or False? 

        a.	True. [Correct answer]
        b.	False.


5.	user event -> state change -> re-render is followed by Redirect component. – True or False?

        a.	True. [Correct answer]
        b.	False.

