# History, match and location in react-router

## Overview

In this session, we will learn about history, match and location – the three brilliant objects provided in the package of react-router.

<br />

## Learning Outcome

•	What are these three objects – history, match and location provided by react-router?

•	How can these three objects aid us in improving our React routing?

<br />

### History, match and location

We have already learnt a great deal about react-router so far. We know how we can use the components provided by react-router and react-router-dom to create routes for our web page.
However, react-router comes packed with something more powerful. It’s these three props – **history**, **match** and **location** which completely transform our process of routing.

#### What you must do?

•	Read about the introduction to the history component in react-router in [this article](https://dev.to/kozakrisz/react-router---how-to-pass-history-object-to-a-component-3l0j).

•	[This article](https://www.freecodecamp.org/news/hitchhikers-guide-to-react-router-v4-4b12e369d10/) is the perfect guide for history, match and location.


#### Additional Resources

•	Read in detail about the history, location and match properties in [this article](https://reacttraining.com/react-router/core/api/history). Read from the **history** section till **withRouter**.

<br />

## Assessment Quiz

1.	We can get access to the history object’s properties without using the withRouter HOC. – True or False?

        a.	True. [Correct answer]
        b.	False. 

2.	Can we replace the current entry on the history stack using the history component?

        a.	Yes. [Correct answer]
        b.	No.


3.	The history object is mutable. – True or False?

        a.	True. [Correct answer]
        b.	False.


4.	The ```isExact``` property will be true if we have specified ‘/Blog’ in the links and we have opened ‘/Blog/2’ in the web page. – True or False?

        a.	True.
        b.	False. [Correct answer]


5.	Which of the following statement is TRUE?

        a.	It is recommended to access the location from history.location.
        b.	replace(path, [state]) pushes a new entry onto the history stack.
        c.	You can use location to check if the pathname has changed. [Correct answer]
        d.	None of the above.
