# **Introduction to Routing and react-router**

## Overview

In this session, we will understand how to achieve the multi-page feeling in a single page application (SPA).

<br />

## Learning Outcome

•	How to achieve the multi-page feeling in SPAs without reloading the pages?

•	What is react-router?

•	How does it help achieve routing in React?

•	How to use react-router?

<br />

### Routing in React

We all know the various advantages of single-page applications over multi-page applications. Of all the various benefits, the fact that only one HTML page is involved makes SPAs much more preferable over their multi page counterparts. 
However, there are cases when you do need a multi-page feeling to your SPAs. Consider our ‘Build My Burger' project. Currently, we show the orders section using a modal. Wouldn’t it be cooler and much more aesthetic to have the orders section on a different page? Or for that instance, if we have a login section to our application, wouldn’t we like to have it on a different page?
We can achieve this multi-page feeling in SPA like React using a third-party library called ‘**react-router’**.

### Introduction to react-router

**‘react-router'** is a third-party library and the de-facto library for routing in React. It helps you to create routes to show various pages in React.

#### What you must do?

•	Read [this article](https://medium.com/@marcellamaki/a-brief-overview-of-react-router-and-client-side-routing-70eb420e8cde) by Marcella Maki to understand the basic ideology behind react-router. Read everything before **Using React Router** section.

•	Read until the section before **Components** in [this article](https://flaviocopes.com/react-router/) to get more understanding of the topic.

•	Check out [this basic example](https://reacttraining.com/react-router/web/example/basic) of react-router in practice. It’s okay if you don’t understand the basic components, we will cover them in the upcoming sessions.

<br />

## Assessment Quiz

1.	React-router keeps the URL up-to-date as one navigates through the web pages. – True or False?

        a.	True. [Correct answer]
        b.	False.


2.	The web-page do not get refreshed when you have multiple pages and you click on links to open new HTMLs. – True or False?

        a.	True.
        b.	False. [Correct answer]


3.	Does react-router preserve the history of browser?

        a.	Yes. [Correct answer]
        b.	No. 


4.	The routes that are used to manage the user experience and the routes that are used to manage queries to the database are the same. – True or False?

        a.	True.
        b.	False. [Correct answer]


5.	React-router uses _____ routing.

        a.	Static.
        b.	Dynamic. [Correct answer]

