# The withRouter package

## Overview

In this session, we will learn about the withRouter package that comes with react-router-dom.

<br />

## Learning Outcome

You need to have a very good idea about the history, location and match props of react-router. If you still feel you are not so clear with the concepts, please read through the previous session once again.

You will learn the following in this session:

•	How to pass the router properties to deeply nested components?

•	What is withRouter and how to use it?

•	How to avoid passing router props all the way down to components?

<br />

### withRouter

You must have faced this problem before where you have a hierarchy of components and you have to pass certain props from a great-grandad component all the way down to the great-grandchild component. All the components in the middle serve as nothing but mere message passing agents. To simplify and optimize this, we learnt of a tool in the previous sprint.

Similarly, when you have to pass a router property to a component which is deeply nested inside, we need the help of something special to achieve that. This is where withRouter comes into the picture.

#### What you must do?

•	Read [this article](https://hackernoon.com/withrouter-advanced-features-of-react-router-for-single-page-apps-42b2a1a0d315) to understand everything about withRouter.
•	Read the official documentation [here](https://reacttraining.com/react-router/core/api/withRouter) to understand more about this.



## Assessment Quiz

1.	withRouter re-renders route transitions even when the parent component does not re-render. – True or False?

        a.	True.
        b.	False. [Correct answer]


2.	Component A has two children – component AB and component AC. Component AB further has a child ABD. If we have used withRouter on A, will ABD also get the history, match and location properties?

        a.	Yes.
        b.	No. [Correct answer]


3.	Which is the correct syntax to use withRouter?

        a.	withRouter() => component A
        b.	withRouter(componentA) [Correct answer]
        c.	None of the above.


4.	withRouter is a ______.

        a.	Higher Order Component. [Correct answer]
        b.	Lower Order Component.
        c.	Pure Component.
        d.	None of the above.


5.	withRouter is imported from react-router-dom. – True or False?

        a.	True. [Correct answer]
        b.	False. 
