# **Server Side Rendering**

## Overview

In this session, we will learn how to optimize our application by rendering the application on the server.

<br />

## Learning Outcomes

In this session, you will learn the following:

- How to render a React application on the server?


<br />

### Server Sside Rendering (SSR)

We are well aware that React renders the application on the client-side. However, if we consider server-side rendering of the React application, a lot of avenues open up. 

Primarily, it will help with the performance. Secondly, it's a major benefit that the SPA will be rendered completely on the server and then sent to the client, thereby saving a lot of time on client-side application. And finally, it helps in having an app that can be crawled for content that generally non-JavaScript handlers cannot handle.


#### What you must do?

- [This article](https://alligator.io/react/server-side-rendering/) will sum up the entire process of rendering on the server side.

<br />

## Assessment Quiz

1. What method of ReactDOM is used to indicate the DOM render that this application is rendered on the server?

        a. dehydrate
        b. rehydrate
        c. hydrate [Correct answer]
        d. serverRender

<br />

2. We have to tell the server to serve contents from the build directory as static files. - True or False?

        a. True. [Correct answer]
        b. False.

<br />

3. We use a method from ReactDOMServer, ________, to render the app to a static HTML string.

        a. renderToHTML
        b. renderToString [Correct answer]
        c. render
        d. renderToHTMLString