# Wrap Up


## What did you learn
We looked at what Algorithms and Data Structures are and why they are so important in the computer science domain. We also got a first taste of competetive programming. Above all we understood how these concepts fit into the Job interview process.

## Key Takeaways

- A data type is a category of data with predefined values. It defines data itself.
- Data structures are collections of data with a particular type. It defines the way data is stored to make it more accessible.
- A variety of data structres are used because different applications access data in different ways with varying efficincy.
- An algorithm is the step-by-step unambiguous instructions to solve a given problem.
- Different algorithms can solve the same problem. However the efficiency may be different.
- Predominently, efficiency of an algorithm depends on the time it takes to solve a particular problem and the amount of extra space it uses to do so.
- The rate at which the running time increases as a function of input is called rate of growth. Rate of growth is calculated using Asymptotic Analysis.
- Asymptotic Analysis is used to measure the worst case, best case and the average case of an algorithm. While the Big-O notation is used to represent average case(the most used).
- Competetive Programming refers to solving problems by implementing the most optimum algorithm on a multi peer portal.

## What's Next
Now that we have a basic foundation of how data is stored and used in algorithms, we will look a little deeper into the different types of algorithms. We will talk about various strategies used to solve problems efficiently. 
