# **Reconciliation**

## Overview

In this session, we will understand how React updates the Virtual DOM so efficiently and why are keys so important while rendering lists.


## Learning Outcome

To get a clear understanding of this important concept in React, it’s crucial for you to have a crystal-clear idea of the DOM structure in HTML. If you feel you need to read through the DOM structure again, kindly go through the same topics in the previous sprints.

You will learn the following at the end of this session:

•	What is reconciliation in React and why is it important to understand it?

•	How does React apply reconciliation and diffing algorithm?

•	Why are keys essential while creating lists in React?


### Reconciliation

To give you an analogy of what does React mean by reconciliation, let’s step into the world of accounting. Wikipedia states that 
> In accounting, reconciliation is the process of ensuring that two sets of records are in agreement. Reconciliation is used to ensure that the money leaving an account matches the actual money spent.

ReactJS literally follows the same ideology to understand whether two DOM trees are in agreement or rather, if they are equal. If there is an irregularity or a difference found in the DOM structure, then React figures out what steps to be taken to efficiently update the UI to match the most recent DOM tree.

#### What you must do?
•	First, read the [Motivation part of the React documentation](https://reactjs.org/docs/reconciliation.html) for reconciliation to understand the reason behind Facebook’s decision to include this concept. 

•	Next up, get a simple understanding of what the concept is by reading [this article](https://medium.com/@ryanbas21/react-reconciliation-7075e3f07437) on Medium. 

•	Once you are done reading Ryan Bas’ article, kindly move on to complete the remaining part of the [Reconciliation documentation of React](https://reactjs.org/docs/reconciliation.html) after Motivation. Pay special attention to the part with Keys. 


