# **Refs and the DOM**

## Overview

In this session, we will understand refs – a keyword which gives us the reference to DOM element. Additionally, we will also understand how to create refs and how to pass them between components.

## Learning Outcome

•	What are refs and how to create them?

•	When to use refs and how to use refs?

•	How to pass refs between components?

•	What do you mean by forwarding refs and how to achieve that?

## Refs and the DOM

In JavaScript, more often than not, we would need access to a DOM's element. For example, say we need to focus on an input element. We need to use the code like:

```
let name = document.getElementById('#name');
name.focus()
```
Or in JQeury, we would do:

``` 
$("#name").focus()
```

Similarly, in our React application, we might need to access the form DOM element for multiple reasons like: validating the form length or autosuggesting options in a dropdown based on the text user enters. This is where we use ```refs``` in React.

## What you must do?

•	Begin with reading about **refs** in [this post](https://css-tricks.com/working-with-refs-in-react/) by CSS-Tricks. Read till **Passing a callback function to the ref**.

•	Next, we will move to the official [React documentation on refs](https://reactjs.org/docs/refs-and-the-dom.html). Pay close attention to the following sections – **When to use Refs**, **Creating Refs**, **Accessing Refs** and **Callback Refs**. 

•	One of the most fascinating features, and a need that you will soon understand as you work more on refs, is the need to pass a ref from parent to child. For this, it’s important to study a feature called as **Forwarding Refs**. Go through this [official documentation](https://reactjs.org/docs/forwarding-refs.html) to understand it.


## Additional Resources
•	In CSS-Tricks’ post on Refs, the last section talks about using refs for form validation. Have a look at it [here](https://css-tricks.com/working-with-refs-in-react/).

## Coding Practice

In the previous sprint, you had created a modal which houses a form for placing the order. In this assignment, you will now use refs to validate the form.
