# **Fragments and HOCs**

## Overview

In this session, you will understand what React Fragments are and where can we use it. On similar lines, we will understand more about Higher Order Components (HOCs) and see a few examples where HOCs are used.


## Learning Outcome

•	What are React Fragments?

•	How can React Fragments help solve the problem of returning multiple elements in render?

•	What are Higher Order Components?

•	Where can we use HOCs and how to create a custom HOC?


### Fragments 

Earlier in the previous sprint and even while coding in React, you might have faced a problem where React render refuses to allow you to add multiple elements. More often than not, you’d end up substituting it with a div. This is where React Fragments come into picture.

#### What you must do?
•	Read the official documentation’s take on [React Fragments](https://reactjs.org/docs/fragments.html). 

<br />

### HOCs

Close on the lines of fragments, we have Higher Order Components. Its primary job is taking a component and returning a new component. Confused? Read on to know more about what are HOCs and where to use them.

#### What you must do?
•	Read about Higher Order Components on the React website [here](https://reactjs.org/docs/higher-order-components.html). 
•	If the concept seems too tough to understand, read [this Medium article](https://medium.com/@soorajchandran/introduction-to-higher-order-components-hoc-in-react-383c9343a3aa) for easy understanding. 

<br />

## Additional Resources

- [This article](https://tylermcginnis.com/react-higher-order-components/) by Tyler McGinnis explains React HOCs in a simplified manner.

<br />

## Assessment Quiz

1.	By using Fragments, we add an extra node to the DOM tree. – True or False?

        a.	True.
        b.	False. [Correct answer]


2.	Can we use the short syntax of Fragment when using keys?

        a.	Yes.
        b.	No. [Correct answer]


3.	Higher Order Component doesn’t modify the input component. – True or False?

        a.	True. [Correct answer]
        b.	False. 


4.	Is it ideal to modify a component’s prototype inside a HOC?

        a.	Yes. 
        b.	No. [Correct answer]


5.	Can we use HOC inside the render method?

        a.	Yes.
        b.	No. [Correct answer]



