## Overview

JavaScript is huge. Pat yourself at the back for having reached this far. The course was broken into the essentials and the advanced JS concepts being used by the Industry. In this section, we'll be exploring the Advanced concepts of data structures that simplifies JS and provides more power to the developer.

## Learning Outcome

- What are the advanced concepts of handling data structures?


### Advanced Data Structure
In addition to having aesthetic understanding of HTML and CSS, Frontend Engineers are expected to master JavaScript as well. As data stores on the client become “replicas” of databases on the server, intimate knowledge of idiomatic data structures becomes pivotal. In fact, an engineer’s level of experience can be inferred from his or her ability to distinguish  _when_  and  _why_  to use a particular data structure.

> Bad programmers worry about the code. Good programmers worry about data structures and their relationships.
>
> — Linus Torvalds, Creator of Linux and Git

#### What you must do?

- Go through the [post](http://blog.benoitvallon.com/data-structures-in-javascript/data-structures-in-javascript/) that covers the essential data structure concepts and algorithms. Note that your focus should be more on the various concepts outlined in the tutorial and then the algorithms. It's okay if you understand what the algorithm you are reading about does and skip the implementation part for now. You should revisit them later though.

### Additional References

This section contains some additional helpful links.
- Dive deeper into the [Data Structures and Algorithms in JavaScript](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=t2CEgPsws3U)


### Assessment Quiz
1. The unordered collection of properties, each of which has a name and a value is called  
- `String`  
- `Object`  [Correct Answer]
-  `Serialized Object`  
- `Array`

2. Identify the process done in the below code snippet?
	```js
	o = {x:1, y:{z:[false,null,""]}};
	s = JSON.stringify(o);
	p = JSON.parse(s);
	```
- `Object Encapsulation`  
- `Object Serialization`  [Correct Answer]
- `Object Abstraction`  
- `Object Encoding`


3. What will happen if reverse() and join() methods are used simultaneously?  
- `Reverses and stores in the same array`  [Correct Answer]
- `Reverses and concatenates the elements of the array`  
- `Reverses`  
- `Stores the elements of an array in normal order`

4. What will be the shift() output of the following JavaScript code?
```js
var a = [];
a.unshift(1);
a.unshift(22);
a.shift();
a.unshift(3,[4,5]);
a.shift();
a.shift();
a.shift();
```
- `1`  [Correct Answer]
- `[4,5]`  
- `[3,4,5]`  
- `Exception is thrown`
