## Overview

This concept will help you understand Web Storage and available options

## Learning Outcome

- What is web storage?
- What options are available for storage?
- Why do we need web storage?

### Storage

**Web storage**, sometimes known as **DOM storage**, provides web apps with methods and protocols for storing client-side data. Web storage supports persistent data storage with a greatly enhanced capacity. There are two main web storage types: local storage and session storage. We can also use cookies to store information although cookies store very small amount of data. All major browsers support it.

#### What you must do?

- Understand [data storage in browsers](https://javascript.info/data-storage)
- Cookies are data, stored in small text files, on your computer.
When a browser requests a web page from a server, cookies belonging to the page are added to the request. This way the server gets the necessary data to "remember" information about users. What are [Cookies](https://www.w3schools.com/js/js_cookies.asp)?
- With web storage, web applications can store data locally within the user's browser. Before HTML5, application data had to be stored in cookies, included in every server request. Web storage is more secure, and large amounts of data can be stored locally, without affecting website performance. Unlike cookies, the storage limit is far larger (at least 5MB) and information is never transferred to the server. Web storage is per origin (per domain and protocol). All pages, from one origin, can store and access the same data. A short guide to [Web storage](https://www.w3schools.com/html/html5_webstorage.asp)

### Additional References

This section contains some additional helpful links.

- In this article, we will compare and contrast cookies and LocalStorage. [Cookies vs localStorage](https://medium.com/swlh/cookies-vs-localstorage-whats-the-difference-d99f0eb09b44)

### Assessment Quiz

1. Before HTML5 where data had to be stored?

- `cookies` [Correct Answer]
- `browser`
- `only in Internet Explorer`
- `only in Chrome`

2. In localStorage object data **\_\_\_\_**

- `is deleted after the browser has been closed`
- `is not deleted after the browser has been closed` [Correct Answer]
- `can be seen but can not edit`
- `can be seen as well as edit`

3. Which of the following is not a web storage interface?

- `storage`
- `window`
- `storageEvent`
- `privacy` [Correct Answer]

4. How do you save data in localStorage?

- `localStorage.setItem()` [Correct Answer]
- `localStorage.saveItem()`
- `localStorage.saveData()`
- `localStorage.setData()`

5. How do you get data in localStorage?

- `localStorage.getItem()` [Correct Answer]
- `localStorage.accessItem()`
- `localStorage.accessData()`
- `localStorage.getData()`
