## Overview

This concept will help you understand Web Storage and available options

## Learning Outcome

- What is package manager?
- What is npm?
- What is yarn?


### Package managers

A **package** is a reusable piece of software which can be downloaded from a global registry into a developer’s local environment. Each package may or may not depend on other packages.

Simply put — a package manager is a piece of software that lets you manage the **dependencies** (external code written by you or someone else) that your project needs to work correctly.

#### What you must do?

- An absolute beginners guide to using  [npm](https://nodesource.com/blog/an-absolute-beginners-guide-to-using-npm/)
- All the things you need to know about [Yarn](https://flaviocopes.com/yarn/)


### Additional References

This section contains some additional helpful link.
- NPM and yarn both are package managers that perform the same task. They why do some devs prefer NPM and some prefer yarn? Understand the difference between [npm and yarn](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DRIWL2QOtmg)


### Assessment Quiz
1. What is the name of the file that stores all your package dependencies?  
- `package.json`  [Correct Answer]
- `package-lock.json`  
- `package.js`  
- `package-lock.js`

2. I can install packages without the package managers config file
- `No`  
- `Yes`  [Correct Answer]

3. What's the name of the folder where all your dependencies are stored?  
- `node_modules`  [Correct Answer]
- `package_modules`
- `packages`  
- `build`

4. Package managers use a lock file for?
- `Lock the package versions` [Correct Answer]
- `Lock the author initials of the project`
- `Lock the remote git repository`
- `Lock the sensitive project details`
