# **Switching using React router**

## Overview

In this session, we will learn about the components of react-router and how to use them to switch pages in React. In the end, we will also see how to style active links.

<br />

## Learning Outcome

•	What are the various components of react-router?

•	How do the components of react-router work to switch pages?

<br />

### Components of react-router

In the last session, we learnt a great deal about how to achieve multi-page feeling in a SPA like React. We learnt that react-router is the de facto library for achieving routing in React. 
Now, we will learn what are the various components that enable routing in React.
The primary three components of a react-router are **BrowserRouter**, **Link** and **Route**.

#### What you must do?

•	Read the **Components** section of [this article](https://flaviocopes.com/react-router/#components). It will help you understand the three main components explained above.

•	Next, you will also need to look at the [**Switch** component in React](https://reacttraining.com/react-router/web/api/Switch). It helps in switching pages in React.

•	Next, look at [the example](https://reacttraining.com/react-router/web/example/basic) we had seen in the last session again. This time, given that you now know about the components, you will be able to understand the example better.

•	After that, complete reading the remainder of [the article](https://flaviocopes.com/react-router/#components) on flavioscopes.com we saw in the first link, from **Match multiple paths** till **Match dynamic route parameter**.

<br />

### Loading dynamic routes

In the previous section, we learn about loading multiple paths in react-router. However, what if we want to load paths dynamically? For instance, suppose we have a blog page where we will load blogs based on their id, for example, *blog/2/*. In this case, we will have to load the routes dynamically.

#### What you must do?

•	Read [the final section](https://flaviocopes.com/react-router/#components) from **Match dynamic route parameter** on flavioscopes.com till the end. This will give you a great deal of understanding of dynamic routing.

•	Next, check out [this example](https://reacttraining.com/react-router/web/example/url-params) of dynamic routing in React. You will probably be confused about the **useParams** bit in the code. useParams is a hook introduced with React Hooks, which we will be learning soon in the coming sessions. For the time being, if you want to understand what useParams does, check this out. Read only the useParams part.


#### Additional resources

•	If you are still feeling confused and overburdened with the entire official documentation, [this article](https://www.freecodecamp.org/news/hitchhikers-guide-to-react-router-v4-a957c6a5aa18/) will clear your doubts with simple and subtle examples.

<br />

### Styling active links

We just studied about a lot of components. Now, before we end this session, we will finally look at one final component which helps us style active links. For instance, if our web application has 4 pages and we are on the home page, we need some way of showing the user that we are currently on the Home page. NavLink is the component which helps us achieve this.

#### What you must do?

•	Read [this short brief](https://reactgo.com/reactrouter/navlink/) article about NavLink and how to use it to style active links.

<br />

## Assessment Quiz

1.	What does Route component of react-router do?

        a.	It wraps all the route components.
        b.	It is responsible for showing or hiding the components. [Correct answer]
        c.	It is used to generate links to your routes.
        d.	It is used for looking at history.


2.	A BrowserRouter component can have multiple children elements in it. – True or False?

        a.	True.
        b.	False. [Correct answer]


3.	Which of the following is a correct syntax of Link component?

        a.	<Link go={‘/dashboard’}>Dashboard</Link>
        b.	<Link to={‘/dashboard’}>Dashboard</Link> [Correct answer]
        c.	<Link path={‘/dashboard’}>Dashboard</Link>
        d.	<Link to=/dashboard>Dashboard</Link>


4.	We can specify components or render HTML in Route component of react-router. – True or False?

        a.	True. [Correct answer]
        b.	False.


5.	Where can we look up the dynamic parameters in the Route component of react-router?

        a.	match.params [Correct answer]
        b.	check.params
        c.	params.params
        d.	match.id


## Coding Assignment

In the Weather Application that we have created, add a new page called 'My Cities' where you can add cities for tracking.

You need to do the following:

- Add a new button below each card called 'Add \<city-name> to My Cities'.
- On clicking this button, the selected city should be added to a Firebase database.
- Create another page using react-router called 'My Cities'.
- In 'My Cities', you need to fetch the data for cities which are added for tracking. Here, cards only need to show the name of the city and the temperature, as shown in the diagram.
- In 'My Cities' page as well, you need to follow the styling that we had added for cards. Using CSS Modules, fetch that particular styling and re-use it here.
- There should also be a temperature measurement changer at the top of the page (similar to what you had created earlier in the application). Here, it will convert the temperature of all the cards in the page.
- Finally, also add a 'Remove' button next to each card so that you can stop tracking the city. On clicking 'Remove', the database on Firebase should be updated and it should be shown and visible accordingly on the UI.