## Overview

This section will provide you with an assessment quiz to refresh the concepts that you have learnt so far.

### Assessment Quiz

1. Which of the following css property allows elements to be offset, rotated, scaled, and skewed in a variety of different ways?

- `transform-3D`
- `transform-origin`
- `transform` 
- `transition`

2. Which of the following css property is used to define which properties a transition will be applied to?

- `animation-property`
- `transition-property` 
- `css3-property`
- `none of the mentioned`

3. flex-basis defines

- `the width of the flex element` 
- `the base of the flex element`
- `the boldness of the flex element`
- `if the flex element is visible`

4. the css property "order" for flex items allows you to

- `specify in what order the flex items appear` 
- `specify in what direction the flex items appear`
- `specify at what time flex items appear`
- `none of the above.`

5. flex-grow is applied to the flex element, not the whole flexbox

- `true` 
- `false`

6. `flex-direction` is applied to a flex element not the whole flex box

- `true`
- `false` 

7. `flex-flow` is a shortcut to define flex-direction and flex-wrap

- `true` 
- `false`

8. Which of the following property defines the style for the left border of an element?

- `border-style`
- `border-left-style` 
- `border-left-width`
- `border-right`

9. Which of the following visibility property value is to be specified for the element such that the element is not visible, but the layout of surrounding elements is not affected?

- `visible`
- `hidden` 
- `collapse`
- `none of the mentioned`

10. Which of the following display property value is described by used internally by browsers to create list items. Of no practical value to web designers?

- `inline-block`
- `list-item` 
- `group`
- `none`
