# **Strict mode and Static Type Checking**

## Overview

In this session, we will understand the Strict Mode – a tool for highlighting potential problems in an application. Post that we will take a look at Static Type Checking and the tools used for that.

<br />

## Learning Outcome

Before you understand the finer nuances of the Strict Mode, it’s important to have a very good idea about the various React lifecycle methods. Kindly go through it in the previous sprint for clearing any doubts.

•	What do you mean by Strict Mode?

•	When is Strict Mode supposed to be used?

•	What is Static Type Checking and why is it better than using PropTypes?

•	What are the different tools used for Static Type Checking?

<br />

#### What you must do?

•	Understand what Strict Mode is and the need for having Strict Mode in React by reading [this Medium article](https://blog.hackages.io/do-you-know-react-strictmode-6d3ec9ab7161). 

•	Read about the Strict Mode from the official React documentation [here](https://reactjs.org/docs/strict-mode.html). 

•	We have learnt about PropTypes for type checking in the previous sprint. Here, we can use a better alternative to PropTypes in terms of Flow. Check out [this article](https://pusher.com/tutorials/type-check-react-flow) for Flow. Practice the code on your local machine while going through the tutorial. 

•	Next, on the official documentation [here](https://reactjs.org/docs/static-type-checking.html), read the definition at the top and move to the TypeScript section at the bottom. 


#### Additional Resources

•	Check out the official documentation for Flow [here](https://flow.org/).

<br />

## Assessment Quiz

1.	Strict mode checks are run in both development and production mode. – True or False?

        a.	True.
        b.	False. [Correct answer]


2.	```<React.Strictmode>``` is the wrapping component used to instill strict mode in React. – True or False?

        a.	True.
        b.	False. [Correct answer]


3.	Strict Mode helps us find out legacy string ref API usage. – True or False?


        a.	True. [Correct answer]
        b.	False.


4.	Strict Mode can only be enabled for encapsulating the entire component and not for a particular child in the component. – True or False?

        a.	True.
        b.	False. [Correct answer]


5.	Will ```componentWillMount``` be detected by the Strict Mode?

        a.	True. [Correct answer]
        b.	False.
