# **Error Boundaries and Portals**

## Overview

In this session, we will find out how to handle errors in React using Error Boundaries. We will also learn about Portals – a first-class way to render children into a DOM node that exists outside its parent.

<br />

## Learning Outcome

•	How to handle errors in React?

•	What are Error Boundaries and how to use them?

•	Where can we not use Error Boundaries?

•	What are Portals?

•	How to use portals?

•	When to use portals?

<br />

### Error Boundaries

Since React is also JavaScript, there will always be instances where an unforeseen error might tend to break the entire app. It then paints an ugly picture of the brand if it fails in production environment. Therefore, it is very important to catch these errors. Error Boundaries help us to achieve exactly that.

#### What you must do?

•	Read [this post](https://reactjs.org/docs/error-boundaries.html) about Error Boundaries.


<br />

### Portals

At many instances during your React coding, you might need to create elements which are outside the DOM of the parent component. For such scenarios, React introduced Portals.

#### What you must do?

•	Read about Portals in [this Medium article](https://medium.com/@siobhanpmahoney/portals-in-react-js-5d98bb89797c).


#### Additional Resources

•	You can read more about Portals in [the official React documentation](https://reactjs.org/docs/portals.html).
 
<br />

## Assessment Quiz

1.	Which of the following scenarios will NOT be caught by Error Boundaries?

        a.	Divide by zero error in calculation in one of the states.
        b.	Incorrect name of component in children.
        c.	Errors found in event handlers. [Correct answer]
        d.	None of the above.


2.	Server-side rendering errors are caught by Error Boundaries. – True or False?

        a.	True.
        b.	False. [Correct answer]



3.	Which of the following is the correct syntax for creating portals?

        a.	React.createPortal(child, container)
        b.	ReactDOM.portal(child, container)
        c.	React.portal(container, child)
        d.	ReactDOM.createPortal(child, container) [Correct answer]


4.	Event bubbling for Portals works in the same way as parent-child propagation works. – True or False?

        a.	True. [Correct answer]
        b.	False. 


5.	Can asynchronous code be handled by Error Boundaries?

        a.	Yes.
        b.	No. [Correct answer]




