# **Accessibility in React**

## Overview

In this session, we will understand how to create React websites that can be used by everyone.

<br />

## Learning Outcome

•	What is Web Accessibility and why is it crucial for any website?

•	How can you achieve Web Accessibility for React applications?

•	What are the different practices and standards to be followed for accessibility in React?  

<br />

### Accessibility in React

To give you a very brief idea about accessibility, imagine the users of your React webpage working on a desktop machine without using a mouse. Basically, every action that they do on the website, including moving from one element to another, is done using the keyboard keys. If your React application does not support a functionality, say that by clicking <kbd>Tab</kbd> on the keyboard, it should move from one element to another, it basically renders your application useless, leaving your users frustrated.

This is where Accessibility comes into picture.

#### What you must do?

•	Read the [official React documentation on Accessibility](https://reactjs.org/docs/accessibility.html) till More Complex Widgets. You can skip the various hyperlinks mentioned inside the sections. 


Additional Resources

•	Save [this handy cheat sheet](https://www.wuhcag.com/wcag-checklist/) for WCAG (Web Content Accessibility Guidelines) standards to be used while creating web pages. 

<br />

## Assessment Quiz

1.	Which of the following is NOT an ideal method for Web Accessibility for React apps?

        a.	Using React Fragments or HOC to render multiple elements.
        b.	Labeling various form elements.
        c.	Ensuring pointer events can be exposed using keyboard alone.
        d.	Using div anywhere a block element is required. [Correct answer]


2.	____ is a short syntax for React Fragments.

        a.	<Fr>
        b.	<Frag>
        c.	<> [Correct answer]
        d.	<!>


3.	Which of the following is NOT a good practice for Web Accessibility according to WCAG 2.0?

        a.	There is no requirement to suggest remedial measures to fixing errors when showing an error. [Correct answer]
        b.	User data should be saved when re-authenticating.
        c.	Elements do not change when they receive input.
        d.	Don’t play audio automatically.


4.	It’s not important to set the language of the web page. – True or False?

        a.	True. 
        b.	False. [Correct answer]


5.	The ```<title>``` needs to be updated on every page change to keep the user aware about his location. – True or False?

        a.	True. [Correct answer]
        b.	False.
