# **Context APIs**

## Overview

In this session, we will discover one of the major problems with having multi-level components and how Context APIs solve them.

<br />

## Learning Outcome

•	What are Context APIs?

•	When do we use Context APIs?

•	How to use Context APIs?

<br />

#### What you must do?

•	Read the introduction and **When to use Context** sections from the official React documentation of Context [here](https://reactjs.org/docs/context.html). 

•	Next, understand the process of Context in detail by reading [this article by Boris Yordanov](https://www.toptal.com/react/react-context-api). 

•	Continue reading the remainder of the [React documentation on Context](https://reactjs.org/docs/context.html) after the When to use Context part.

<br />

## Assessment Quiz

1.	Using context, we can avoid passing props through intermediate elements. – True or False?

        a.	True. [Correct answer]
        b.	False.


2.	What is the syntax used for creating Context?

        a.	React.context(value);
        b.	React.makeContext(value);
        c.	React.addContext(value);
        d.	React.createContext(value); [Correct answer]


3.	_______ allows consuming components to subscribe to context changes.

        a.	Context
        b.	Context.Giver
        c.	Context.Provider [Correct answer]
        d.	Context.Subscribe


4.	<Context.Consumer> creates the consumer for the Context API. – True or False?

        a.	True. [Correct answer]
        b.	False.


5.	Can we provide a display name to our context?

        a.	Yes. [Correct answer]
        b.	No.

<br />

## Coding Practice

To get a firm grip on the concept of context, we will add that to our ‘Build My Burger’ application.

•	In the Main component, create an object which contains CSS properties for background-color and font-color in the main component. This will be the theme for creating our buttons.

•	The ‘Place Order’ and the ‘Order Now’ buttons will now be moved into a component which will be used in their place.

•	Using Context, pass the CSS properties from main component to the button created in ‘Button’ component.
