# **Refs and the DOM**

## Overview

In this session, we will understand refs – a keyword which gives us the reference to DOM element. Additionally, we will also understand how to create refs and how to pass them between components.

<br />

## Learning Outcome

•	What are refs and how to create them?

•	When to use refs and how to use refs?

•	How to pass refs between components?

•	What do you mean by forwarding refs and how to achieve that?

<br />

#### What you must do?

•	Begin with reading about **refs** in [this post](https://css-tricks.com/working-with-refs-in-react/) by CSS-Tricks. Read till **Passing a callback function to the ref**.

•	Next, we will move to the official [React documentation on refs](https://reactjs.org/docs/refs-and-the-dom.html). Pay close attention to the following sections – **When to use Refs**, **Creating Refs**, **Accessing Refs** and **Callback Refs**. 

•	One of the most fascinating features, and a need that you will soon understand as you work more on refs, is the need to pass a ref from parent to child. For this, it’s important to study a feature called as **Forwarding Refs**. Go through this [official documentation](https://reactjs.org/docs/forwarding-refs.html) to understand it.

<br />

#### Additional Resources
•	In CSS-Tricks’ post on Refs, the last section talks about using refs for form validation. Have a look at it [here](https://css-tricks.com/working-with-refs-in-react/).

<br />

## Assessment Quiz

1.	What is the syntax for making refs?

        a.	React.makeRef(element);
        b.	React.createRef() [Correct answer]
        c.	React.addRef()
        d.	React.ref()


2.	```React.forwardRef()``` is used to forward refs to a child component. – True or False?

        a.	True. [Correct answer]
        b.	False.


3.	Refs are supremely useful in handling form validation. – True or False?

        a.	True. [Correct answer]
        b.	False.


4.	If I have a ref called ```myRef```, ```this.myRef.current``` will supply me with what?

        a.	An object showcasing the properties of the ref myRef.
        b.	The variable in which the myRef property is stored.
        c.	The instance of the class in which the myRef variable is stored.
        d.	A reference to the DOM node of the myRef element. [Correct answer]


5.	We can use the ref attribute on functional components. – True or False?

        a.	True. 
        b.	False. [Correct answer]

<br />

## Coding Practice

In the previous sprint, you had created a modal which houses a form for placing the order. In this assignment, you will now use refs to validate the form.
