### Why this concept?
This entire concept will focus on helping you understand about the Node JS fundamentals and basic contructs of backend developement like HTTPS, datastores, API and what problems they helped solve. This concept will lay basic foundation of Node js which you can build on in the next concepts.

Our focus will then shift towards Express JS and the reason for its inception. 
By the end of the concept, we will be able to **`Write our CRUD application`**.

### Overview
After understanding what backend development is all about and learning about what is Node.js and how to set up your node project, let's begin our journey into Node JS. In this topic, we will begin the very first basic concept in Node.js i.e global objects.

### Learning Outcome
- What are Global Objects?
- How is global object in Node.js different from window object in Javascript.
- How to declare and use Global Objects?
- Use cases of Global Object.

### Introduction
To understand what Node.js is we first need to know the fundamentals topics of Node js like global objects, modules etc. This are the building blocks of Node. So let us begin with global objects.
When switching to Node.js from browser JavaScript or another programming language, these questions arise:
- How to create global variables (no window in Node)?
- How to access CLI input, OS, platform, memory usage, versions, etc.?

The answer to this is global objects. 

### What you must do
- Start with understanding [What are global objects](https://www.tutorialspoint.com/nodejs/nodejs_global_objects.htm)
- Read the entire blog which explains [What are global objects, its practical use cases and why to use them with caution etc](https://stackabuse.com/using-global-variables-in-node-js/)
- Learn more about [Global objects in node using examples](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=jn8PZNBmKm0&t=7s)
- Read how [How is global object in Node.js different from window object in Javascript](https://blog.logrocket.com/what-is-globalthis-why-use-it/)


#### Additional Resources
- Read this to [dive deep into global objects](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/43627622/what-is-the-global-object-in-nodejs)
- You can check the entire [list of globals on the official website](https://nodejs.org/api/globals.html)

### Summary
- By definition A Global object is, An object that always exists in the global scope.
- This concept holds true in any programming language.
- The global object provides variables and functions that are available anywhere. By default, those that are built into the language or the environment.
- Node.js global objects are global in nature and available in all modules. You don't need to include these objects in your application; rather they can be used directly. These objects are modules, functions, strings and object etc. Some of these objects aren't actually in the global scope but in the module scope. Few of teh global objects are as follows - 
	- __filename
	- Console
	- Process
	- Buffer
	- setImmediate(callback[, arg][, ...])
	- setInterval(callback, delay[, arg][, ...])
	- setTimeout(callback, delay[, arg][, ...])
	- clearImmediate(immediateObject)
	- clearInterval(intervalObject)
	- clearTimeout(timeoutObject)

- In a browser it is named window, for Node.js it is global, for other environments it may have another name. To see the complete list of global objects do the following exercise 
	1. In the Node.js application that you created in last sprint, Create a file called, global.js
	2. Copy this statement in your file and save the file

	```
	console.log(global);
	```
	3. Run the code - Open a command prompt and type node global. It logs the entire global object.

- In the Node.js module system, each file is treated as a separate module. The Global objects are available in all modules.
- While in browsers the global scope is the window object, in nodeJS the global scope of a module is the module itself, so when you define a variable in the global scope of your Node.js module, it will be local to this module.
	
#### How is global object in Node.js different from window object present in Javascript.
As we know about the existence of global in Node.js, let us see what it provides and how it is different than browser's window object

Try this code in your browser's Console,

```
var test = "Testing Global Object in Browser";
console.log(window.test);
```

As expected, you should get the output as, 'Testing Global Object in Browser'. Because the variable declared globally, would be accessible by the global object, i.e, window object in browser.

Now create test.js in your Node.js application and copy the below code in this file

```
var test = "Testing Global Object in Node.js";
console.log(global.test);
```

Save the changes and run from terminal as, node test. You will see difference in behavior for Node.js. It prints undefined. Why? Because, by creating a variable in Node.js file, you do not add that variable as a property to the global object.

While in browsers the global scope is the window object, in nodeJS the global scope of a module is the module itself, so when you define a variable in the global scope of your Node.js module, it will be local to this module.

Now modify index.js and try this code,


```
	var test = "Testing Global Object in Node.js";
	console.log(test);
```

Running the above code will log 'Testing Global Object in Node.js'.

In the above examples we saw how to use in built global objects. Let us now see how to Declare and Use your own Global Variable that you can access across modules

```
	global.globalVariable = "This can be accessed from all the modules!!";
	console.log(globalVariable); // Output: "This can be accessed from all the modules!!"
```

globalVariable will now be accessible in all the other modules. So this is how to define a global variable in node, anything you attach to "gobal" keyword becomes part of the global object.
