### Overview
In the previous chapters we saw that irrespective of the type of modules you use, we need require to import the modules in our application. In this section we will dive deep into what require is, how it works.

### Learning Outcome
- What is require?
- How require works?
- How is path resolved in require?

### Introduction
-  Node.js follows the CommonJS module system, and the builtin require function is the easiest way to include modules that exist in separate files. The basic functionality of require is that it reads a JavaScript file, executes the file, and then proceeds to return the exports object.  An example module: 
Create test.js and the snippet below
```
    console.log("how require works");

    var notExported = function () {
        console.log("I am not exported");
    }

    exports.message = "Hi";

    exports.say = function () {
        console.log(exports.message);
    }
```

- So if you run var example = require('./test.js'), then text.js will get evaluated and then example be an object equal to:

```
    {
    message: "hi",
    say: [Function]
    }
```

So you can see only the variables/functions you have attached to exports object gets exported. we not get notExported variable since we have not exported it.

If you want to set the exports object to a function or a new object, you have to use the module.exports object. 

```
    module.exports = {
        message: hi,
        .say = function () {
            console.log(exports.message);
        }
    }
```

- To require a module, we call the require function with either the path of the module (absolute or relative), which starts with /, ./, or ../ in the case of local modules, or the name of the module in the case of core modules and third-party modules.
Then, it returns the exported content of the module that we require.
Note: Basically, we get the reference of the object module.exports.

### How is path resolved in require.
The rules of how require finds the file is a little complex. but there are simple thumb rules 
1. if the file doesn't start with "./" or "/", then it is either considered a core module (and the local Node.js path is checked), or a dependency in the local node_modules folder
2. If the file starts with "./" it is considered a relative file to the file that called require.
3. If the file starts with "/", it is considered an absolute path.
Read about the alogrithm used to find the file in [the official docs](https://nodejs.org/docs/v0.4.2/api/modules.html#all_Together...)

### How require works
There are various steps that require goes through to import a module.
    - Resolving the module path (finds the module).
    - Then it loads the module in the memory.
    - The code in the module is executed.
    - Bundling all exports from the module into one object module.exports.
    - Caches the module, so that, when we require this module again, all of the steps are not exceuted again.

### What you must do
- Read this article on - [Requiring modules in Node.js](https://medium.com/edge-coders/requiring-modules-in-node-js-everything-you-need-to-know-e7fbd119be8): Everything you need to know.
This article explains how patch is resolved when require starts finding the module we want to import with lots of examples and all the cases. 

- To understand path resolution better read this [article](https://medium.com/maxkimambo/how-does-node-module-loading-actually-work-8aa63849f5ae)


#### Additional Resources
- Read about - [Using require.resolve() To Calculate Module-Relative File Paths In Node.js](https://www.bennadel.com/blog/3243-using-require-resolve-to-calculate-module-relative-file-paths-in-node-js.htm)
- Read about Modules, require, module caching from the [offical node.js website](https://nodejs.org/api/modules.html).
- Watch a video on [Modules and require()](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=xHLd36QoS4k).
- Watch a video on [How require() Actually Works in Node](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DZSMhgklXmw). This video has detailed explaination on how path is resolved in Node.






