### Assessment Quiz
1.Which of the following is true about global objects in Node applications?
- `Global objects are global in nature and they are available in all modules.`
- `Global objects are nore required to be included in application, rather they can be used directly.`
- `Both of the above.`*
- `None of the above.`

2. Is process a global object?
- `true`*
- `false`

3. What is the output of the following code block?
```js
var test = "Testing Global Object in Node.js";
console.log(global.test);
```
- `Testing Global Object in Node.js`
- `undefined`*


4. What are few globals available in Node.js?
- `express, lodash`
- `console, setInterval, require`*
- `None of the above`

5. Which of the following statement is valid to use a Node module http in a Node based application?
- `var http = require("http");`*
- `var http = import("http");`
- `package http;`
- `import http;`

6. By default, npm installs any dependency in the local mode.
- `true`*
- `false`

7. By default, npm installs any dependency in the global mode.
- `true`
- `false`*

8. Which of the following is true about package.json?
- `package.json is present in the root directory of any Node application/module.`
- `package.json is used to define the properties of a package.`
- `package.json can be used to update dependencies of a Node application.`
- `All of the above.`*

9. Which of the following is true about fs module of Node?
- `Every method in fs module have synchronous as well as asynchronous form.`
- `Asynchronous methods of fs module take last parameter as completion function callback and first parameter of the callback function as error.`
- `Both of the above.`*
- `None of the above.`

10. The Node.js modules can be exposed using
- `module.expose`
- `module`
- `module.exports`*
-  `All of the above`