# Overview
An object data model is a data model based on object-oriented programming, associating methods (procedures) with objects that can benefit from class hierarchies. Thus, “objects” are levels of abstraction that include attributes and behavior. Mongoose is an Object Data Modeling (ODM) library for MongoDB and Node.js. It manages relationships between data, provides schema validation, and is used to translate between objects in code and the representation of those objects in MongoDB.

# Learning Outcomes
- ORM/ODM for MongoDB and Relational Databases
- Getting started with Mongoose
- Getting familiarity with mongoose's RDBMS alternative.

## Introduction
ORM is such a computer science technology which helps the developers in maintaining a steady view on the objects even when the sources and applications they access tend to change over the time. In the world of computer programming, Java professionals previously used the techniques of JDBC for data persistence that only includes writing and executing SQL statements to update particular data in the database. Although this JDBC approach was quite popular, the SQL statements were being difficult to read, write and troubleshoot. Mongoose provides a straight-forward, schema-based solution to model your application data. It includes built-in type casting, validation, query building, business logic hooks and more, out of the box. In simple words, Mongoose acts as an intermediate between mongodb and server side language(like NodeJs)

## What you must do?
- [Proper hands on with ODM for MongoDB - Mongoose](https://code.tutsplus.com/articles/an-introduction-to-mongoose-for-mongodb-and-nodejs--cms-29527)
- [Common mistakes with Mongoose to avoid](https://codeburst.io/common-mongodb-and-mongoose-pitfalls-a48a5dc2d21f)
- [ORM for commonly used Relational Databases - Sequelize](https://sequelize.readthedocs.io/en/latest/docs/getting-started/)
