## Overview

This concept will help you understand how you can use some popular community driven external libraries.

From here on, we'll be creating a quiz application as we keep covering the JavaScript topics. After you cover this section, you'd able to quickly traverse through DOM nodes using jQuery and you'll find some amazing utility functions that helps you manipulate various data types swiftly.

For the quiz app, we have provided the html [file](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1jaTzHORhl8_Rinty2HwC6ZoyXQbMDhY5/view?usp=sharing). You'll find below given list of id and class:

- `#username`
- `#modal-container`
- `#quiz-container`
- `#submit`
- `#reset`
- `.buttons`

Using jQuery, select elements with the above mentioned id and class. Store the result in the variable.

If you are stuck in between, you can refer to the complete solution of the project [here](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1hUn72omMXAbkNv6VkNsCS_uxnlOJjxmZ/view?usp=sharing)


## Learning Outcome

- What is a jQuery?
- What is an lodash?

### jQuery

[jQuery](https://jquery.com/) is a fast and concise JavaScript Library created by John Resig in 2006 with a nice motto: **Write less, do more**. jQuery simplifies HTML document traversing, event handling, animating, and Ajax interactions for rapid web development. jQuery is a JavaScript toolkit designed to simplify various tasks by writing less code. Here is the list of important core features supported by jQuery −

- **DOM manipulation** − The jQuery made it easy to select DOM elements, negotiate them and modifying their content by using cross-browser open source selector engine called **Sizzle**.

- **Event handling** − The jQuery offers an elegant way to capture a wide variety of events, such as a user clicking on a link, without the need to clutter the HTML code itself with event handlers.

- **AJAX Support** − The jQuery helps you a lot to develop a responsive and feature rich site using AJAX technology.

- **Animations** − The jQuery comes with plenty of built-in animation effects which you can use in your websites.

- **Lightweight** − The jQuery is very lightweight library - about 19KB in size (Minified and gzipped).

- **Cross Browser Support** − The jQuery has cross-browser support, and works well in IE 6.0+, FF 2.0+, Safari 3.0+, Chrome and Opera 9.0+

- **Latest Technology** − The jQuery supports CSS3 selectors and basic XPath syntax.

#### What you must do?

- jQuery is a comprehensive DOM manipulating library and to cover al the methods are beyond this course. Also, it's usage has reduced with the advent of better libraries such as React, Vue.js etc. Although, projects have been built in the past and there are companies and people who still use it because of the ease one can find while using jQuery to manipulate DOM. Though we can't teach every topic, you can complete the crash course on [jQuery](http://jqfundamentals.com/) which will not only provide you a better understanding of jQuery but will also teach you about the basics of the available jQuery methods.

### Lodash

A programmer uses functional utilities (functions) in his lifetime as many times as he blinks. Lodash comes with handful of befitting methods for coders. For example, we have a built in method for making a string uppercase called `someVariableThatHoldsAstring.toUpperCase()`. Similarly, lodash provides many commonly used utility methods that come in handy while developing an application.

#### What you must do?

- Just skim through various methods in the [official lodash documentation](https://lodash.com/docs/4.17.15) to understand what and all utlity methods are available. Don't mug up each and every method. The name of the utility functions are self-explanatory.
- This [guide](https://medium.com/front-end-weekly/introduction-to-lodash-71dbee093b49) will help in understanding how to use few methods that are available in lodash.
- Similarly, you can try playing around with other methods that can be seen in the official documentation of lodash.

### Moment

**Moment.js** is a free and open source JavaScript library that removes the need to use the native JavaScript Date object directly. The library is a wrapper for the Date object (in the same way that jQuery is a wrapper for JavaScript) making the object a whole lot easier to work with date and time.

#### What you must do?

- Just skim through various methods in the [moment documentation](https://momentjs.com/docs/) to understand what and all utlity methods are available.
- Go through the [guide](https://alligator.io/js/time-manipulations-momentjs/) to see how to use few methods of moment.

### Best Practices

New JS devs usually aren't aware of the best practices that all the seasoned JS devs follow while coding. These practices help you in writing readable and efficient code. Please note that the best practices aren't restricted to the material provided per se. With experience, you'll learn better techniques to code fantabulously.

#### What you must do?

- [24 JS best practices for beginners](https://code.tutsplus.com/tutorials/24-javascript-best-practices-for-beginners--net-5399)
- [Things every JS developer should know/](https://ilikekillnerds.com/2015/03/things-every-javascript-developer-should-know/)

