# **Introduction to Redux**

## Overview

In this session, we will learn about the problem of maintaining state and how Redux solves this problem.


## Learning Outcome

_It is very crucial for you to have a clear understanding of how state works in React. If you still have doubts about state in React, go through the concept again._

You will learn the following in this session:

- Understand the problems associated with state and big applications.
- What is Redux and how does it solve this problem?
- What are the various components of Redux?


## Redux and the complexity of state

We have learnt that state is the object where you store property values that belongs to a component. We also know that if you want to share the state of a component with a child component, you can pass it via props.

However, as you might have seen in the projects you've created so far, it's extremely difficult to maintain state for large applications. This is where Redux comes to the rescue.

## What you must do?

- Read this [article](https://blog.logrocket.com/why-use-redux-reasons-with-clear-examples-d21bffd5835/) by Neo Igohardo which perfectly explains why Redux is just perfect for large applications. It will also introduce you to the three important concepts of Redux - **actions**, **reducers**, and **store**.

- Read this Medium [article](https://blog.usejournal.com/why-and-when-to-use-redux-b57f7dae9269) till **Data flow in Redux** to understand another perspective on the need for React.
- Read [the official documentation](https://react-redux.js.org/introduction/why-use-react-redux) of React-redux to emphasize on the need for Redux.


## Additional Resources

- Go through [this basic tutorial](https://redux.js.org/basics/basic-tutorial) on the official Redux (not React-redux) website and read till the section **Store**.