# **Connecting Redux to React**

## Overview

In this session, we will learn how to connect a React application to Redux state management system.

## Learning Objectives

Before we begin our session, there are two important plugins that you need to install in your system. A note: these plugins are available on Google Chrome, the browser recommended for coding at the beginning of the sprints.

- [React Developer Tools](https://chrome.google.com/webstore/detail/react-developer-tools/fmkadmapgofadopljbjfkapdkoienihi?hl=en) : It is similar to the Google Dev Tools with the difference that it shows you all the components you have created.
- [Redux DevTools](https://github.com/zalmoxisus/redux-devtools-extension): Similar to React Developer Tools, Redux DevTools give you all the information necessary for using Redux with the added bonus of time-travelling (a mind-blowing concept you will be witnessing soon)! Follow the installation steps while coding the assignment at the end of this session.

<br />

We will learn the following in this session:

- How to use Redux in a React application?
- What is **connect**, **mapStateToProps** and **mapDisptachToProps** of Redux?
- How to create a simple application using React and Redux?

<br />

### Connecting React and Redux

As mentioned before, Redux is not a service provided by the React library. Instead, it's an effective and widely used state-management tool used by leading web frameworks like React, Angular, Ember, amongst others. In our case, it will help us maintain a global state for all our components.

#### What you must do?

- Understand the definition and usage of **connect**, **mapStateToProps**, and **mapDispatchToProps** in [this Medium article](https://medium.com/mofed/reduxs-mysterious-connect-function-526efe1122e4).
- Next, follow the basic tutorial on [React-redux official documentation](https://react-redux.js.org/introduction/basic-tutorial) to explore and understand connect and properties. Ensure that you do try this on your loccal machine as this will give you a hands-on experience of working on Redux for your assignment at the end of this session.

<br />


## Assignment

Now that we have learnt the principles of Redux, we will try to implement the same in our weather application.

- Create a singular redux store, reducers and relevant actions to convert our application to a redux state.

For example, our current application involves a lot of children to parent and vice-versa props passing. It leads to a lot of unnecessary props passing and code complexity.

Using Redux, you will create actions which will handle the job of updating the state which will now be in the reducer and the store. The end goal of this activity should be that your code should no longer have props passing and complexity of the code should become as minimal as possible.