# **Multiple reducers and combineReducers**

## Overview

In this session, we will learn how to resolve the complexity of a large application by dividing the global state into multiple independent reducer functions which manage their own state.

## Learning Outcomes

In this session, we will learn the following:

- How to effectively divide your global state into multiple independent reducers for efficiency?
- How to combine these individual reducers to let React have the feeling of a single global state?



### Multiple Reducers

In the previous sessions, we learnt a great deal about reducers and how they make coding in React more efficient by introducing the concept of a global state.

Now, think about a web application like an e-commerce website like Amazon. Can you imagine the number of state objects and action creators that we will need to incorporate for such a big application? It can turn out to be very messy and chaotic, to say the least.

To resolve this, we will need to divide the reducers into different groups. For example, there will be a reducer for handling login and authentication, a different reducer for fetching the different images for products, another reducer for fetching and placing orders, and so on. In this session, we will learn about the multiple reducers and how to combine them.

#### What you must do?

- [This article](https://reactgo.com/how-to-combine-reducers-redux/) brilliantly explains the concept of multiple reducers using an example in React.

- Go through [this video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BVvBa18o8Es) by one of the best React developer/mentor in the industry **Maximilian Schwarzmüller** to understand how to handle multiple reducers in a big React application.

#### Additional Resources

- [This article](https://medium.com/coding-artist/redux-from-scratch-chapter-8-dividing-the-state-with-multiple-reducers-c7969a0d2d97) will also help you to understand the concept of multiple reducers and how we can combine them to one global state using ```combineReducers```. <br />
**NOTE: The above link doesn't explain the combineReducers in React.**
