# **Optimization in Redux**

## Overview

In this final session of section 6.1, we will learn about optimizing the Redux part of our application. We will be looking at two important concepts - **Memoization** and **Redux-Persist**.

For example, in our project, we are dealing with a lot of requests coming from the store. If we manage to cache or store some requests, we could boost the speed of our application.

<br />

## Learning Outcomes

In this session, you will learn the following:

- How to improve the speed of the requests in React-Redux application?
- What do we mean by memoization?
- How to implement memoization in our React Redux application?
- What is redux-presist and where can we use it?
  
<br />

### Memoization

Before we understand the actual definition of **Memoization**, let's try to understand the reason why we'd need memoization in the first place. 

Think about the Redux application that you have just created. You must be importing some state using **mapStateToProps**. Now, imagine the state that we have received above is an array with a bunch of random numbers called *numbers_arr*. Now, we will pass this value to a function called *calculateMin()* which will calculate the minimum value from the array. 

This all sounds fine except for the part that every time *calculateMin()* will be called when the state is updated, even though we might not want to calculate the minimum value. If the state tree is particularly large or the calculations are aplenty, this could be a major performance problem. This is where memoization comes into the picture.

#### What you must do?

- Read [this article](https://codeburst.io/understanding-memoization-in-3-minutes-2e58daf33a19) to understand what memoization means in JavaScript.
- Understand [memoization of Redux applications](https://redux.js.org/recipes/computing-derived-data/) by reading this official link on Redux website.

<br />

### Redux-Persist

We just had a look at the memoization of the Redux application. Now, let's take a step further in the journey of optimization. Now, another way of improving the speed is by storing the data temporarily in the user's browser to avoid multiple fetch requests. In short, we will try to persist the data.

To do this we have an excellent library called `redux-persist`.

#### What you must do?

- Read [this article](https://blog.bam.tech/developer-news/redux-persist-how-it-works-and-how-to-change-the-structure-of-your-persisted-store) to understand and learn how to implement `redux-persist`.

#### Additional resources

- Check the [official GitHub page](https://github.com/rt2zz/redux-persist) of `redux-persist` to understand more about the library.