# **Connecting Redux to React**

## Overview

In this session, we will learn how to connect a React application to Redux state management system.

## Learning Objectives

Before we begin our session, there are two important plugins that you need to install in your system. A note: these plugins are available on Google Chrome, the browser recommended for coding at the beginning of the sprints.

- [React Developer Tools](https://chrome.google.com/webstore/detail/react-developer-tools/fmkadmapgofadopljbjfkapdkoienihi?hl=en) : It is similar to the Google Dev Tools with the difference that it shows you all the components you have created.
- [Redux DevTools](https://github.com/zalmoxisus/redux-devtools-extension): Similar to React Developer Tools, Redux DevTools give you all the information necessary for using Redux with the added bonus of time-travelling (a mind-blowing concept you will be witnessing soon)! Follow the installation steps while coding the assignment at the end of this session.

<br />

We will learn the following in this session:

- How to use Redux in a React application?
- What is **connect**, **mapStateToProps** and **mapDisptachToProps** of Redux?
- How to create a simple application using React and Redux?

<br />

### Connecting React and Redux

As mentioned before, Redux is not a service provided by the React library. Instead, it's an effective and widely used state-management tool used by leading web frameworks like React, Angular, Ember, amongst others. In our case, it will help us maintain a global state for all our components.

#### What you must do?

- Understand the definition and usage of **connect**, **mapStateToProps**, and **mapDispatchToProps** in [this Medium article](https://medium.com/mofed/reduxs-mysterious-connect-function-526efe1122e4).
- Next, follow the basic tutorial on [React-redux official documentation](https://react-redux.js.org/introduction/basic-tutorial) to explore and understand connect and properties. Ensure that you do try this on your loccal machine as this will give you a hands-on experience of working on Redux for your assignment at the end of this session.

<br />

## Assessment Quiz

1. Which of the following is the correct syntax for using connect for a component ```myComponent```?

        a. connect(mapDispatchToProps, mapStateToProps)myComponent
        b. connect(mapDispatchToProps, mapStateToProps)(myComponent)
        c. connect(mapStateToProps, mapDispatchToProps)myComponent
        d. connect(mapStateToProps, mapDispatchToProps)(myComponent) [Correct answer]


2. If we don't have a ```mapStateToProps``` but we do have a ```mapDispatchToProps```, do we need to specify null in the first argument for connect?
      
        a. Yes. [Correct answer]
        b. No.


3. ```connect()(myComponent)``` is a valid syntax. - True or False?

        a. True. [Correct answer]
        b. False. 

        
4. What do we mean by ```connect(null, mapDispatchToProps)(myComponent)```?

        a. Do not subscribe to the store and do not inject action creators.
        b. Subscribe to the store and do not inject action creators.
        c. Do not subscribe to the store and inject action creators. [Correct answer]
        d. Subscribe to the store and inject action creators.


5. What do we mean by ```connect(mapStateToProps)(myComponent)```?

        a. Do not subscribe to the store and do not inject action creators.
        b. Subscribe to the store and do not inject action creators. [Correct answer]
        c. Do not subscribe to the store and inject action creators.
        d. Subscribe to the store and inject action creators.


<br />

## Assignment

Now that we have learnt the principles of Redux, we will try to implement the same in our 'Build My Burger' application.

You need to do the following tasks:
  
- Move the ingredients counter that you fetch from the Firebase database to a Redux store.
- Connect the component to the redux store.
- Create actions and reducers for modifying the counters of ingredients and ensure that the changes are showing in the Firebase database.