# **CSS Modules**

## Overview

In this session, you will learn a concept which is used by most of the enterprise-level React developers to style their components – CSS Modules.

<br />

## Learning Outcome

•	Why do we need CSS Modules?

•	Where do we need to use CSS Modules?

•	How to use CSS Modules?

<br />

### CSS Modules

We already know that CSS is used for styling web pages and it does a fantastic job, that is. However, if you are building an enterprise-level web application (e.g. Amazon, Flipkart, etc.), the sheer amount of the number of styles and their interoperability is one massive confusing affair. In cases like this, wouldn’t it be fantastic to follow an approach similar to React where you can modularize or compartmentalize the styles according to the components? CSS Modules provide you with this exact feature.

#### What you must do?

•	Read [this fantastic article](https://blog.pusher.com/css-modules-react/) to learn the step-by-step process of using CSS modules in React.

•	Next, check out the image **How do CSS Modules work?** in [this excellent article](https://programmingwithmosh.com/react/css-modules-react/) by Mosh Hamedani.

#### Additional Resources

•	Furthermore, you can also read the [entire article](https://programmingwithmosh.com/react/css-modules-react/) by Mosh Hamedani.

<br />

## Assessment Quiz

1.	CSS Modules help you resolve dead code issue by only importing styles that you require. – True or False?

        a.	True. [Correct answer]
        b.	False. 


2.	We cannot use same styles in different ways for different sections using CSS Modules. – True or False?

        a.	True.
        b.	False. [Correct answer]


3.	What does the localIdentName do in the configuration properties?

        a.	It makes the webpack understand that we are using CSS Modules.
        b.	It loads the CSS modules in the web application system.
        c.	It helps every import of style for different components to be unique. [Correct answer]
        d.	It does not have any significance. 


4.	If you are using CSS Modules by importing styles into a component and ejecting the configuration of CRA, which of the following syntax is correct for setting ```border-bottom``` to a component having a class called Profile?

        a.	Profile { border-bottom: 1px solid #eee }
        b.	.Profile { borderBottom: 1px solid #eee }
        c.	.Profle { border-bottom: 1px solid #eee } [Correct answer]
        d.	Profile { borderBottom: ‘1px solid #eee’ }


5.	By using CSS Modules, we are using actual CSS living in CSS files wired with JS modules using imports and hashed class names at build time. – True or False?

        a.	True. [Correct answer]
        b.	False.
