# **Radium**

## Overview

In this session, we will learn about Radium – a style library which helps us use pseudo selectors to set styles dynamically.


## Learning Outcome

To understand Radium and its benefits, you need to have a clear understanding of how to set styles dynamically as explained in the previous two concepts. Kindly go through the two sessions again if you feel you are not completely comfortable with setting styles dynamically.

You will learn the following things in this session:

•	How to deal with pseudo selectors like hover, focus, blur, and so on when setting styles dynamically inline?

•	What is Radium?

•	How to use Radium?

<br />

### Radium

Imagine this: you have already set styles dynamically for the button in the form example explained in the previous session. However, now the client has asked you to add a different style when a user hovers over the button. As you can imagine, it’s almost impossible to achieve that using the concept we learnt in the last two sessions. This is where Radium excels.

What you must do?

•	Read about how to use Radium to style React elements in [this excellent article](https://medium.com/@childsmaidment/reactjs-components-with-radium-and-inline-styling-638857cc3801). In this article, the author James Childs-Maidment has used traditional React method ```React.createClass``` to create React class components. If you haven’t read about it yet, don’t fret, it’s exactly similar to using class className extends Component. You can read about that more [here](https://ultimatecourses.com/blog/react-create-class-versus-component).

•	Next, read the official documentation of Radium [here](https://formidable.com/open-source/radium/).

<br />

## Assessment Quiz

1.	We don’t need to wrap the component class with Radium to use the functionalities of Radium. – True or False?

        a.	True.
        b.	False. [Correct answer]


2.	Radium cannot work with stateless components. – True or False?

        a.	True.
        b.	False. [Correct answer]


3.	Can we use media queries with Radium? 

        a.	Yes. [Correct answer]
        b.	No.


4.	Radium can be used for inline styles by incorporating the pseudo selector inside the style object and add properties to the pseudo selectors. – True or False?

        a.	True. [Correct answer]
        b.	False.


5.	```
    off: { 
        backgroundColor: ‘#FF5722’, 
        border: 0, 
        width: ‘20px’, 
        height: ‘20px’, 
        borderRadius: ‘50%’, 
        color: ‘white’, 
        transitionDuration: ‘.2s’, 
        transitionTimingFunction: ‘ease-out’, 
        transform: ‘translate(0px,0px)’, 
        ‘:hover’: { 
            backgroundColor: ‘#FF7043’ 
        }
    }
    ```
    Is this syntax correct?


        a.	Yes. [Correct answer]
        b.	No.
