# **Setting styles dynamically in React**

## Overview

In this session, we will understand how to dynamically add styles to React elements based on conditions.

<br />

## Learning Outcome

•	When to dynamically add styles to React elements?

•	How to add styles dynamically to React elements?

•	What are the different ways to dynamically add styles to React elements?

<br />

### Dynamically setting styles

While almost majority of the times, you can rely on styles set statically by a stylesheet or inline, there are times when you need to set style based on a condition.
For instance, let’s just say I have a form with a submit button. In an ideal scenario, I would prefer having the button disabled if the user has not filled anything in the text boxes in the form. On the same lines, if the user has finished typing in all the boxes, I would prefer switching on the button. Such dynamism can be achieved by setting styles dynamically.

#### What you must do?
•	To understand how to dynamically set styles inline in React, you can read [this article](https://medium.com/@henrytran/basics-dynamic-styles-with-react-react-native-29f41e552164).

•	Next, you can read [this article](https://www.andreasreiterer.at/dynamically-add-classes/) to dynamically set class names which are pre-defined in the CSS files.


## Assessment Quiz

1.	Can we set styles object inside the return function? 

        a.	True.
        b.	False. [Correct answer]


2.	The lifecycle method shouldComponentUpdate by default always returns true. – True or False?

        a.	True. [Correct answer]
        b.	False.


3.	We need to deeply compare the nextState to the current state when trying to dynamically style in React’s shouldComponentUpdate. – True or False?

        a.	True.
        b.	False. [Correct answer]


4.	We should use the shouldComponentUpdate approach when there are no performance issues whatsoever. – True or False?

        a.	True.
        b.	False. [Correct answer]


5.	If there are lots of styles to be changed dynamically, we need to run a loop to target every style. – True or False?

        a.	True.
        b.	False. [Correct answer]
