# Introduction to Web Application Deployment

**Why this concept?**

In the first concept, we briefly learned about deployment and its importance.

In this concept, we will get into the practical aspect of it and learn how we can deploy the 'Build My Burger App' we have been working so hard at.
 
## Overview

In this topic, we will be ushered into the world of web application deployment. We will also learn the steps to deployment and hosting.


# Learning Outcome

- What is the difference between development environment and production environment?
- What do you mean by deploying a web application on a server?
- How to achieve web deployment?
- What are the different platforms and solutions for web deployment and hosting solutions?
- What are the steps in deployment?

## Introduction

*Development vs Production*

More often than not when developers create a solution, it can be full of bugs which often go unnoticed in the heat of development and deadlines. The bugs could be anything from a button not working on a click to a form not being submitted or even a website crashing down. Such buggy code cannot be shown to the client and the customers.

To maintain this distance between a live website and a work in progress one, we create two separate environments – a development and a production environment.

A development environment is used by the developers to create and test their code during development. Most of the time, a development environment or a development server is locally created on every developer’s machine which replicated the production or live environment. It is also used to protect sensitive data from being lost due to accidental code changes.

A production environment meanwhile is an environment which is live to the users. After a code has been thoroughly tested on the development servers, it is then pushed to the production server where it can be viewed by all the users.



## What you must do?

- Read and understand the [process of web application deployment.](https://www.freecodecamp.org/news/lessons-learned-from-deploying-my-first-full-stack-web-application-34f94ec0a286/) Pay close attention upto Getting the Two Applications Communicating part. There is a high chance you will not be able to understand most of the terms in the section named Getting the Two Applications Communicating. However, just read through it and make sure you read the last two sections.

- After that read and familiarise yourself with the [eight popular options for deployment and hosting](https://blog.bitsrc.io/8-react-application-deployment-and-hosting-options-for-2019-ab4d668309fd) 

- Finally, read and get [a thorough understanding of steps in deployment](https://www.webfx.com/blog/web-design/5-fundamental-steps-to-deploying-a-website/)


## Additional Resources

- Read to get a glimpse on the [future of web deployment using ReactJS](https://blog.bitsrc.io/8-react-application-deployment-and-hosting-options-for-2019-ab4d668309fd)

## Assessment Quiz

1.	Which of the following is NOT needed to setup your server?

a.	Exposing the correct ports.

b.	Pointing a custom domain name to the server your application is running from.

c.	Adding served URLs to the front-end HTML code. [Correct answer]

d.	Listening to HTTP requests.


2.	Having 9 script tags at the top of a page does not affect the loading speed of the web page. – True or False?

a.	True.

b.	False. [Correct answer]


3.	It’s important to have access to DNS record management for deployment. – True or False?

a.	True. [Correct answer]

b.	False.


4.	It’s not important to take backup of databases of old websites, as we might not need it. – True or False?

a.	True.

b.	False. [Correct answer]


5.	 ______ code deals with all the logic of your application.

a.	Client-side.

b.	Server-side. [Correct answer]
