
## Overview

This section will provide you with an assessment quiz to refresh the concepts that you have learned.


### Assessment Quiz
1. The client-side JavaScript asynchronous programming model contains  
a) `Timers and error handlers` [Correct Answer]
b) `User interface events`  
c) `State change events`  
d) `API-specific events`

2. Which function among the following lets to register a function to be invoked once?
a) `setInterval()`
b) `setTimeout()`  [Correct Answer]
c) `setTotaltime()`
d) `settime()`


3. The events that represents occurrences related to the browser window are  
a) `Window`   [Correct Answer]
b) `Element`  
c) `Display`  
d) `Handlers`

4. The properties that specify the position of the mouse are _________  
a) `clientX and clientY`   [Correct Answer]
b) `clientY and clientX`  
c) `altKey and ctrlKey`  
d) `metaKey and shiftKey`

5. When is the mouseover event fired?  
a) `When mouse is moved over a new element`   [Correct Answer]
b) `When mouse is clicked`  
c) `When mouse is both moved and clicked`  
d) `When mouse is released`

6. What is the code to print hello one second from now?  
a) `setTimeout(function() { console.log(“Hello World”); }, 1000);`   [Correct Answer]
b) `setTimeout(function() { 1000, console.log(“Hello World”); });`  
c) `setTimeout(function(1000) { console.log(“Hello World”); });`  
d) `setTimeout(function() { console.log(“Hello World”); });`

7. Which is the appropriate code to begin a HTTP GET request?
a) `request.open(“GET”,”data”);`
b) `request.open(GET,”data.csv”);`
c) `request.open(“GET”,”data.csv”);` [Correct Answer]
d) `request.open(“GET”);`

8. Which of the following uses scripted HTTP?  
a) `XML`  
b) `HTML`  
c) `Ajax`   [Correct Answer]
d) `CSS`

9. Which is the element that has a **_src_** property to initiate HTTP GET request?  
a) `img`  
b) `iframe`  
c) `script`  
d) `both img and script`  [Correct Answer]

10. Consider the following code snippet.
```js
<script src="jquery-1.4.2.min.js"></script>
```
What does the  **min**  mean?  
a) Minimised version   [Correct Answer]
b) Miniature  
c) Minimised parameters  
d) Minimum value
