App: Customer management App

Problem statement: Create an application that will allow the store admin to manage their customer data. In this project we will work with dummy data since we are not connected to any database.

The purpose of this project to understand learn about HTTP and its methods, the basic contructs of backend programming like CRUD in REST and create REST API's using Express in Node.js.


Specifications:
Store admin will be able to do operations following using CURL or postman.
- Create a new Customer with the following details
    - Name
    - email
    - phone
    - address
- See the list of all the customers of their store
- Search customer by name and email.
- Update customer details like phone, name and address.
- Delete/Remove a customer.

API's that we would be building:
We would be creating the following endpoints -
- GET: /customers/get: Will get all the customers
    - This endpoint will fetch the customers list
- GET: /customers/{id} : Will get a customer by id
    - Example - /customers/1
    - This API will get a customer by ID. In the above example the API will get the customer whose id is 1
- GET: /customers?name=name&email=email
    - Example - /customers?name=test&email=a@b.com
    - This API will search an whose email is test and email is a@b.com.
- POST : /customers : Creates a customer
- PUT: /customers/{id} : Updates a customer by id
- DELETE: /customers/{id} : Removes a customer by ID


Note work with Static data for now, since we have not yet connected to any database.
For example in the beginning of the code define a customers empty array and perform all the CRUD operations in the API's on that array. That way you can even learn manipulations/filtering on objects and arrays.
