# **TDD vs BDD**

## Overview

Before we move to actual testing, it is very important for us to understand the two major different approaches to the testing - Test Driven Development (TDD) and Behavior Driven Development (BDD).

Although for our sprint, we will be choosing only one of the two processes, this session will help you broaden your mind when you actually set out to development in the real world.


## Learning Outcomes

- What are the two major different approaches for testing in web develpoment?
- What is TDD and where can it be implemented?
- What is BDD and where can it be implemented?
- What are the differences between the two approaches?


## TDD vs BDD

There are two major approaches for testing a web application. Since React is also a library for creating web applications, it is important for us to understand these two approaches and subsequently, choose one of them for our React application.

As mentioned in the title itself, the two approaches are Test-Driven-Development and Behavior-Driven-Development. We will understand the two processes and their differences by reading and practicing the following links.

## What you must do?

- This [article](https://www.softwaretestinghelp.com/tdd-vs-bdd/) will help you understand TDD and BDD with examples.

- Furthermore, [this article](https://codeutopia.net/blog/2015/03/01/unit-testing-tdd-and-bdd/) will also help you understand the difference between TDD and BDD.


## Additional Resources

- This [blog piece](https://codeburst.io/react-behavior-driven-development-bdd-535afd364e5f) explains Behavior Driven Development in React.