# **Jest and Enzyme**

## Overview

We will be using Test-Driven Developmemt for React and in this session, we will be learning the two important tools which will help us with TDD.

<br />

## Learning Outcomes

- What is Jest and Enzyme?
- How to use Jest and Enzyme to test our React applications?


### Jest and Enzyme

While BDD has its own benefits, as you might have seen in the previous session, we will be concentrating on the Test-Driven-Development for our React application.

For React applications, we typically use Jest and Enzyme for tests. 

#### What you must do?

- [This article](https://pusher.com/tutorials/react-jest-enzyme) helps you understand how to test using Jest and Enzyme.
- This [article](https://dev.to/richardigbiriki/testing-your-first-react-component-with-jest-and-enzyme-p38) fantastically sums up an introduction to testing in React application.


#### Additional Resources

- Check out [the offical React blog](https://reactjs.org/docs/testing-recipes.html) for understanding more about testing.
- This is [the official page of Jest](https://jestjs.io/docs/en/tutorial-react) used for unit testing in React application.
- This is [another tutorial](https://www.robinwieruch.de/react-testing-jest-enzyme) on testing in React using Jest and Enzyme.


<br />

## Assessment Quiz

1. Jest provides _______ testing, which compares a rendered image of component to the previous.

        a. Snapshot [Correct answer]
        b. Snapgrid.
        c. Unit.
        d. Regression.

<br />

2. ______ renders only the component and not its children.

        a. mount.
        b. render.
        c. shallow. [Correct answer]

<br />

3. Look at the following code and answer the question below:
    ```
    export const multiply = (x, y) => 10

    describe('Examining multiplication', () => {
        it('multiplies numbers', () => {
            expect(multiply(1, 2)).toEqual(2);
        });
    });
    ```

    Will the test pass?

        a. Yes.
        b. No. [Correct answer]

<br />

4. Can we use Jest and Enzyme to test if a component has been successfully called?

        a. Yes. [Correct answer]
        b. No.

    
<br />

5. Jest can be used without Enzyme to render components and test with snapshots. - True or False?

        a. True. [Correct answer]
        b. False.


## Coding Assignment

Although we have created the entire 'Build My Burger' application by now, I'd like you to add Jest and Enzyme for testing a few components.

- Use Jest and Enzyme for adding tests for the ingredients components. Ensure that every ingredient should begin with counter 0. Additionally, add a test to check that if the user pressed <kbd>-</kbd> button when the counter is 0, it should not go to -1. Add a failing case to check first and then add a passing case.
- Similarly, add a test for Orders component where you test whether the user has filled the entire form before he submits.