## Overview

In this section, we will learn about some of the popular responsive libraries and focus particularly on Bootstrap 4 - the widely used responsive library.

Although there many css libraries available and it totally depends upon you and the project, we we'll be picking up bootstrap as it's widely used and if you do get hired as a frontend engineer, there is a high possibility of the project using bootstrap especially if it's an ongoing project built 4 - 5 years ago.

## Learning Outcome

- Which libraries are extensively used for making websites responsive?
- What is Bootstrap 4?
- Why should you use Bootstrap 4?

### Why Do You Need a Responsive CSS Library?

We build programs to lessen our tasks and similarly library or framework is built so that we code less. The less we write code, the faster the code and time gets saved. There are various reasons for, ‘Why do you need a CSS Library?’. Some of these are-

**Faster Web Development**: If you are a beginner you will require more time to develop than skilled people. In this case, a framework will help the beginner to develop faster as it requires minimal coding skills and comes with many useful widgets. Frameworks not only help non-skilled people but it also helps skilled people. When you use a framework, there is no need to write code from scratch every-time. With a framework your time will be saved and you can do whatever you want in this free time.

**Creative Responsive Design**: Your developed site should render properly across all types of devices. Because different people use different devices and if your site doesn’t load correctly on a single device, you might lose your valuable traffic. A framework that supports responsive web design will save your time and you will be able to develop without any worry.

**Producing Prototypes**: To speed up the design and development process, prototype and wireframes help a lot. You can produce prototypes and wireframes very much faster with a framework.

Boost your workflow with frontend frameworks. If you consider developing a couple of years ago, you might had to write a hundred lines of code for CSS to bring up a simple website skeleton. Frameworks helps you to code less and saves your valuable time.

Currently, there are a wide array of frameworks available and new ones are emerging. Among so many choices, choosing the right framework can be tough. You may be drawn to a popular framework but it might no suit your needs.

You should always remember that if you think that you can write lesser code by yourself than integrating a library then stick to what you are thinking. Loading a huge library for simple tasks is not advisable

Some of the popular libraries that's available at your disposable are listed below:

- [Bootstrap](https://getbootstrap.com/)
- [Foundation](https://foundation.zurb.com/)
- [Materialize](https://materializecss.com/)
- [Semantic UI](https://semantic-ui.com/)
- [UI Kit](https://getuikit.com/)
- [Bulma](https://bulma.io/)

You should also read about Google's [material design](https://envato.com/blog/introduction-material-design/). You'll find the design concepts being used by many web and mobile apps. In android OS, a lot of design elements and gestures are heavily influenced by Material Design. Though, it is not just related to responsive design, you should be aware of it.

### Introduction to Bootstrap

Bootstrap is a collection of various, customizable web-design elements and functions all pre-packaged together in one tool. When designing a website with Bootstrap, developers can pick and choose which elements to use. More importantly, they can feel confident knowing that the elements they chose will not conflict with each other. It’s like having a puzzle, except that each puzzle-piece fits perfectly with the next, no matter what you choose.

These customizable elements contained within Bootstrap are a combination of HTML, CSS, and JavaScript. Thanks to the beauty of open-source, Bootstrap is constantly being improved.

In 2011, Bootstrap was created as an internal solution to solve developing inconsistencies within Twitter’s engineering team. Basically, there was no set code-structure in the way that engineers at Twitter chose to develop the platform.

Web-developing and web-engineering is a craft, many would say it’s an art, and each engineer has their own way of doing things. That works in some cases, but when there are multiple engineers working on the same project with slightly different coding approaches, inconsistencies are inevitable. Inconsistencies in web-engineering can simmer and evolve into deep rooted coding issues that create uncertainty and increase maintenance time. Bootstrap was a tool originally developed by (now former) Twitter engineers Mark Otto and Jacob Thorton as an attempt to encourage Twitter’s engineering team to use the same framework to minimize those inconsistencies. Needless to say, the Bootstrap initiative succeeded at Twitter as the entire team worked faster, more efficiently and with fewer inconsistencies.

Although it started as an internal solution at Twitter, Mark and Jacob quickly realized that they were on to something much greater. In August of 2011, [the Bootstrap framework was released](https://blog.twitter.com/2011/bootstrap-twitter) as an open-source project on Github. Within the next few months thousands of developers around the world contributed to the code and Bootstrap became the most active open-source development project in the world. Since then, Bootstrap has only gained in notoriety and has become “the most popular front-end framework for developing responsive, mobile first projects on the web”

#### What you must do?

- Read about some of the [popular responsive front end frameworks](https://www.keycdn.com/blog/front-end-frameworks) and what are it's pros and cons.
- Know the [various ways to install and use bootstrap](https://getbootstrap.com/docs/4.3/getting-started/download/)
- Go through the [Introduction of and getting started with Bootstrap](https://getbootstrap.com/docs/4.3/getting-started/introduction/). Go through the entire page and read about the various handles that can help you in case you get stuck while building your own projects.

### Additional References

This section contains some additional helpful links.

- Visit [a popular bootstrap editor and playground](https://www.bootply.com/)
- Vist [a popular editor and playground for other popular responsive libraries](https://www.codeply.com/)

### Summary

In this section, you learnt about various responsive css libraries with their pros and cons.

As bootstrap is quite popular amongst them, we picked up bootstrap to be learnt in this unit and we got started with it as well. By now, you should be aware of the various methods to integrate bootstrap in your projects and platforms to ask f0or help in case you get stuck.
