### Overview
To master any progamming language, it is important to understand the fundamental building blocks of that lanuguage. Asynchronous execution is of the most important feature or one such building block of Node.js. A very common interview question - why is Node called a Asynchronous progamming language.
In this section we will see what Asynchronous code actually means and difference between Synchronous and Asynchronous Code. We will also dive deep into why Node is called Asynchronous.

### Learning Outcome
- What is Synchronous Code.?
- What is Asynchronous Code.?
- Difference between the two.
- Advantages of non-blocking code.
- why Node is called Asynchronous?

### Introduction
This section walks you through what is Synchronous and asynchronous programming. Difference between the two and then moving on to Why NodeJS is asynchronous.

### What you must do
- Wacth this video which explains [what is Synchronous and asynchronous programming in JS](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Kpn2ajSa92c)
- Read detailed explaination on [Synchronous vs. Asynchronous Code in Node](https://adrianmejia.com/asynchronous-vs-synchronous-handling-concurrency-in-javascript/).
- Read [Why NodeJS is asynchronous?](http://thewebstop.blogspot.com/2017/09/why-nodejs-is-asynchronous.html)
- Futher read this article on [Understanding Async Programming in Node.js](https://blog.risingstack.com/node-hero-async-programming-in-node-js/)

### Summary
- Synchronous code: In a synchronous programming model, things happen one at a time. When you call a function that performs a long-running action, it returns only when the action has finished and it can return the result. This stops your program for the time the action takes.
    ```
    // Example: This is a synchronous file read:
        const fs = require('fs');
        const data = fs.readFileSync('/file.md'); // blocks here until file is read
        console.log(data);
        moreWork(); // will run after console.log
    ```
- Asynchronous code: An asynchronous model allows multiple things to happen at the same time. When you start an action, your program continues to run. When the action finishes, the program is informed and gets access to the result (for example, the data read from disk). Let us look at the asynchronous version of the above example:
    ```
        const fs = require('fs');
        fs.readFile('/file.md', (err, data) => {
        if (err) throw err;
            console.log(data);
        });
        moreWork(); // will run before console.log
    ```
- Synchronous vs Asynchronous -
    - We can compare synchronous and asynchronous programming using a small example: a program that fetches two resources from the network and then combines results.
    - In a synchronous program, where the request function returns only after it has done its work, the easiest way to perform this task is to make the requests one after the other. This has the drawback that the second request will be started only when the first has finished. The total time taken will be at least the sum of the two response times.
    - In asynchronous program, we can create 2 threads, i.e we can make both the requests together and then both threads wait for their results to come back, after which they resynchronize to combine their results.
    - There are lot of ways of making code asynchronous in Node or JS in general. For example use of setTimeout to make code block asynchronous.
    ```
        console.log("Start executing the code.");
        setTimeout(() => {
            console.log("First.");
        }, 1000);

        console.log("Second.");
    ```
    Output:
    ```
        Start executing the code.
        First.
        Second.
    ```