### Overview
In this topic, understand a small but important part of HTML page structure i.e. HTML Head

### Learning Outcome
- What is HTML head?

- What are the different webpage metadata?

### Introduction

Let's relook at the web page template once more.

***
```html
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html>
    <head>
        <!-- Metadata goes here -->
    </head>
    <body>
        <!-- Content goes here -->
    </body>
</html>    
```
***

So far we have only talked about elements inside HTML body. We also have HTML head. Unlike the contents of the `<body>` element, the head's content is not displayed on the page. The head contains 'metadata' about the document. 

--- 
*Metdata*

Metadata means "data about data".

When it comes to web pages, Metadata refer to the description of a web page that are encoded into the page but not actually displayed on the screen when the page is loaded. 


The actual use of this invisible data is done by the search engines. It is this data that provides important information to search engines about the content and purpose of the web page.

---
Following are the two most commonly used HTML head tags:

**Title**    
The `<title>` element is metadata that represents the title of the overall HTML document (not the document's content.) It is the title that appears in the browser tab the page is loaded in. 

**Meta**

Metadata is data that describes data, and HTML has an "official" way of adding metadata to a document — the `<meta>` element. 

There are a lot of different types of `<meta>` elements that can be included in your page's `<head>` including language, author, etc.


### What you must do?


- Read and understand why [meta tags are important in SEO](https://www.advancedwebranking.com/blog/meta-tags-important-in-seo/)

- Understand with code example about [HTML Head and the different metadata associated with it](https://www.w3schools.com/html/html_head.asp)



### Additional References

- Explore the [HTML head](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Learn/HTML/Introduction_to_HTML/The_head_metadata_in_HTML) documentation and understand its usage in detail  

### Coding Practice

Revise all the concepts you have learned in HTML and complete the assignment

Step 1: Open the [codepen link](https://codepen.io/nnair25/pen/BaBYObv).

Step 2: Fork this codepen link[IMPORTANT].

Step 3: Complete the instructions found in the forked copy of the codepen(JS Code section).




### Quiz

 1. Which of the following is not a correct way to use `<head>` element

a. To define the style of a document

b. To define the title of the document

c. To display heading in a webpage [c]

 2. Which of the following element defines the title in the browser tab
 
 a. `<base>`

 b. `<link>`

 c. `<title>` [c]

3. HTML metadata is data about the HTML document and the `<head>` element is the container of it

a. True [c]

b. False
