# Wrap Up

## What did you learn
In this concept we looked at the various ways of attempting to solve problems. We also gained an intuition about how to think when given a challenge to solve. As we go further, our aim is to keep developing this. Finally, we discussed the various Algorithmic Paradigms that are used to solve problems.

## Key Takeaways

- Algorithms are either classified by implementation methods or by design methods
- Implementation method is the strategy used to write code
- Most common implementation methods are iteration and recursion
- Iterative method eemploys loops to solve repetetive tasks
- A recursive method solves a problem by
calling a copy of itself to work on a smaller problem. This is called the recursion step. The
recursion step can result in many more such recursive calls.
- Most common design methods are Greedy and Divide-and-Conquer
- A greedy algorithm makes locally optimum choices with the hope that it will be in the interest of the globally optimal solution. This is usually applied to problems where no clear approach can be identified
- The Divide and conquer method breaks down a problem in smaller subproblems till they are easy to solve. They are then combined to get a solution. Intuitively speaking, this is usually applied to problems that can be borken up into the same sub units.

## What's Next
With a solid base of algorithm taxonomy, we will look at the various algorithms used to solve the sorting and searching problems. They are some of the most basic yet extremely crucial components of advanced problems.
